GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

6. Having displayed his art collection in a vast modernist white space in (i) former warehouse, Mr.
Saatchi has chosen for his new site its polar opposite, a riverside monument to civic pomposity that once
housed the local government. There is nothing (ii ) about the new location: the building's design is
bureaucratic baroque, (ii1) style that is as declamatory as a task-force report and as self-regarding as a
campaign speech.

   

    
 

  
  
  
     

‘Blank dit 3" :

   
 

  

A. a decadent
B. a claustrophobic
I, an understated

     

7. Only with the discovery of an ozone hole over Antarctica in 1985 did chemical companies finally
relinquish their opposition to a ban on chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which destroy ozone. The discovery
suggested that strong political action to halt production of CFCs might be (i) , and fortunately, the
chemical industry no longer felt compelled to oppose such action: although companies had recently
(ii) their research into CFC substitutes, studies they had initiated years earlier had produced
ili results.
Blanki | Blankii¢ s| Blankiii

  
     
 

      

 
  
   
      

8. Methods were developed to remove distortions caused by either the research environment or the
researcher. Such methods, especially with respect to the researcher, were considered to (i) those (ii)
subjectivity whose unbridled expression was thought to otherwise (iii) research.

Blanki9 | Blankii |) Blankiii* 2 *
|A.restrain | D. incursion of |G. corrupt

  
  
 
 

  

 

   
 

9. The sociologist argued that criminal behavior is an impermanent condition because it is the result of
cyclical forces operating through factors, not the manifestation of deeply rooted personal
characteristics.

. contingent

. alarming

. circumstantial

. proliferating

. unsustainable

. intensifying

 

7AMOQW >
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > #F¥ vol. 2

10. the notion that attention is a limited resource, scientists have found lots of evidence that drivers
with cell phones drives slower and are more apt to miss important details than drivers who drive solely on
the road.

 

A. controversial
B. buttressing
C. questioning
D. bolstering

E. perpetuating
F. refuting

11. The notion is reinforced by the murkiness of the timber economy. Very few companies take the trouble to
discover where the wood in their products originates. To do so would be expensive, and consumers don’t
demand it of them. Consequently regarding illicit timber has become the norm.

A. diffidence
B. indifference
C. trepidation
D. timidity

E. fear

F. apathy

TEST 15

1. The recent exhibition on Dadaism is nothing if not , for the visual arts are currently awash in
Dadaism gestures and gambits of one variety or another.

A. sensational
B. timely

C. daunting
D. ill-advised
E. opportune
F, misguided

2. Gelles urges readers of Abigail Adams’ letters to consider their (i) : in Adams’ era women were
denied a public persona separate from that of their husbands. That said, Gelles then (it) to promote
Adams from a writer of private letters to a public figure, arguing that she was a significant force for change.

Blank i _ Blankiiye

        
  
  

    
 
  

72

CCC CE € ¢

C €¢ €¢ €C €C ¢

C

C €¢ €¢ € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3€ vol. 2

3. Some scientists argue that carbon compounds play such a central role in life on Earth because of the
possibility of resulting from the carbon atoms ability to form an unending series of different
molecules.

(A) deviation
(B) stability

(C) reproduction
(D) variety

(E) invigoration

4. Most advocates of space exploration by the United States would not explicitly associate spaceflight with
(i) , yet that belief, Launius and McCurdy write, is among the roots of arguments (ii) human
spaceflight. Throughout United States history there has been (ii!) —seek utopia—on the frontier, and
many space advocates have used that notion to make their case for exploring and settling space.
aera? Blank iii ee
G. a hostile region fit only for the most self-reliant
|B. irrationality _| E. analyzing _| H. the ideal location for one to better oneself

        

  

 

   

C. utopia F. prompting I. a paradise corrupted by European civilization

5. Many of the towns that have voted to keep incinerators in the country’s solid waste plan have done so not
because they necessarily incinerators, but because they are to narrow their waste-disposal
options.

B. deplore

C. approve of F. expecting

 

6. The research on otters’ environmental requirements is surprisingly (i) . One reason for this has to do
with the estimation of how much they use different areas. Doing so may be (ii) in some kinds of
terrain, such as Shetland where the Eurasian otters are active in daytime and have clear individual markings.
There it is possible to identify the individuals over stretches of coast of a few kilometers and to see what
kinds of coast they use. However, the field conditions are (tii)

 

   

      
  

 
  

  
  

  
   
 
 
 
 

Ty

Blank ii ] Blankiii
D. quite problematic _|G. routine

 
 

  

73
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 472 vol. 2

7. How plausible it is to regard a collection of letters spanning youth and old age as (1) of
autobiography: the procession of characters who inhabit a life, and a chronology of incidents all tum up reliably in
either form whether dated and posted or backward-looking. Yet autobiography, even when ostensibly steeped in
candor, tends toward (ii) through late perspectives, afterwords, and second thoughts, whereas letters have
an undeniable (iii) , offering select glimpses of unmediated impulse and desire.

 

Blankie

A. a panegyric D. reconsideration

B. an approximation |E.tragedy =| He leniency
C. the antithesis F. proclivi [I.urgency ssid

 

8. The demands of notwithstanding, a page or two in Dahl’s recent book on democracy that
considered what public-choice economics has to say about “democratic failure”—or at least a clear signpost
to that literature—would have been very well spent.

(A) clarity

(B) comprehensiveness
(C) economy

(D) cogency

(E) exhaustiveness

9. History teaches us that science is not enterprise, indeed, it is quite the opposite, a motley assortment
of tools designed to safeguard researchers against their own biases.

A. an opportunistic

B. an anomalous

C. a haphazard

D. a collective

E. a monolithic

10. For feminist scholars, Kessler-Harris's concern that the term “labor history" (1) images of male
workers exclusively may be (ii) ; her own immense contributions to the field offer evidence that
feminism has (tii) the questions posed by labor historians, moving women’s concerns from the
periphery closer to the center of labor history writing.

D. overly bold

. *

H. altered
F. unwittingly condescending

 

74

C €¢ €¢ € € € € € € € € € € € ¢€

Cc ¢

(
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 474 vol. 2

11. The art of letter writing is like the art of acting in that it is the impression of (i) which usually
makes a performance convincing. Great letter writers, like great actors, have a gift for (11) , for the here
and now, the depth of expression depending on its closeness to actual processes of thought. By these criteria
Ellen Terry was a remarkable letter writer indeed: her letters invariably have an air of (iii) '

BlankiSS*d Blank dB

A. spontanei D. compassion G. confidence

H. improvisation
[C. sympathy st immediacy I. sensibility

 

TEST 16

1. It seems a duty, in a review of two books that advertise lying as their subjects, to screen the titles for
possible , and it is therefore necessary to report that Evelin Sullivan's “The Concise Book of Lying”
is not concise, and that Jeremy Campbell's “The Liar's Tale: A History of Falsehood” is not a history of
falsehood.

A. simplicity
B. mendacity
C. virulence
D. benignity
E. malignity

2. Precipitation is not in the Atacama Desert west of Andes mountains, and water scarcity is
compounded by problems with water appropriation, so the existence of agro pastoralists is in jeopardy.

A. regular

B. negligible
C. evident

D. consistent
E. insignificant
F. abundant

3. Originally, most intellectual criticism of mass culture was ironic in character, being based on the
assumption that the wider the appeal, the more the product.

(A) desirable
(B) popular
(C) outlandish
(D) prominent
(E) inferior

79
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 42 vol. 2

4. Scientists said that cosmology was the field where the ratio of theory to data was (i) : there was an
abundance of theories, but almost no data. Recently, however, that ratio has flipped. A huge and everincreasing amount of data has (ii) all theories but.one.

 

 
   
    

  

A. completely unknown | D. eliminated
B. nearly infinite
C. always variable F. clarified

5. Without necessarily the original sincerity of Tao-Chi’s religious beliefs, one may note that he no
longer mentions his faith in his writings after a successful trip to Peking where he made friends among the
Manchu, who ___ the beliefs he had held.

  
       
   

     

2S Blank Ps Bee po Ce Blank fh oes

6. British critics covering African American musicians performing in London in the 1910s had little idea how
to distinguish what was authentic African American music from what was , but they knew such a
distinction existed.

A. eclectic

B. genuine

C. derivative

D. spurious

E. legitimate

F. specious

7. There is nothing that (i)__ scientists more than having an old problem in their field solved by someone
from outside. If you doubt this (ii) __, just think about the (iii) reaction of paleontologists to the
hypothesis of Luis Alvarez—a physicist—and Walter Alvarez—a geologist—that the extinction of the
dinosaurs was caused by the impact of a large meteor on the surface of the planet.

 

    

E. objurgation H. indifferent

     
    

76

€ €¢ € € € €

Cc ¢ ¢

( (

(

C

C €¢ €¢ € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4 vol. 2

8. Memory-prompt technology such as online birthday reminders does more than enhance our recall abilities;
it induces us to (i) ever more behaviors to automated processes. Witness the (ii) a program
that allows us to create computer greeting cards for the entire year in one setting.

   
 
 

Bianki [Baki

  
   

 

 
  

9. Bala S. K. Saho notes that it is difficult to fully (i) many of the oral accounts on which the study
relies. Saho’s work shows, however, that despite this absence of (ii) , oral history can provide useful
sources from which historians can truct the past.

Blnkil [Bink

 

           

C. validate

10. The assumption that children learn about science primarily in the classroom is so__ that few policy
makers question it, despite an even-growing body of evidence demonstrating that most science is learned
outside of school.

A. tenuous

B. subtle

C. irrefutable

D. pervasive

E. misconstrued

11. Having an intense and long-standing culture of (i) , the company understandably has a reputation as
the supreme corporate (11) . But even by these standard, the degree of secrecy surrounding the
company's most recent research is (iti .

= Blnk@ | Bink @ Blak
A. impropriety G. remarkable

F. enigma I. counterproductive

TEST 17

 

      
      
 

      
 

     

     
    

oe

     
     
       

1. Although the revelation that one of the contestants was a friend left the judge open to charges of lack of
, the judge remained adamant in her assertion that acquaintance did not necessarily imply partiality.

(A) attachment

(B) disinterestedness
(C) exoneration

(D) foreknowledge
(E) preference

77
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

2. Many macroscopic or higher-level properties on the basis of which we sort chemicals into types are not
the chemical structure itself but instead only manifest themselves under certain

conditions or in particular contexts.

A. inherent in

B. intrinsic to

C. equivalent to

D. influenced by

E. affected by

F. separable from

 

3. Carruthers’ latest literary criticism her reputation for trenchant commentary; despite its intriguing
title and the fulsome praise on its dust jacket, it is nothing more than a collection of

   
       

bese

       

: : heel itiese :

A. foreshadows

D

4. The difficulty of the early Greek philosophers’ attempts to explain the operations of the cosmos led certain
later thinkers to inquire into the ------ of human reason.
(A) origin
(B) creativity
(C) reality
(D) subtlety
(E) efficacy

5. Broadway audiences have become inured to mediocrity and so to be pleased as to make their
ready ovations as an indicator of the quality of the production before them.

     
     

    

oe Blank De Blank ii 2
|B.unlikely | E. meaningless

6. Documenting science's influence on philosophy would be , since it is almost axiomatic that many
philosophers use scientific concepts as the foundations for their speculations.

(A) obnoxious
(B) superfluous
(C) appropriate
(D) difficult
(E) impossible

78

€ €¢ € € € €

C

c

C

(

Cc €¢ €¢ € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

7. Fifteen years ago, the author of this scholarly monograph would have (i) _ found a university press

willing to publish it. But today specialized books of this sort are (11) __ species. Their main purchasers -
university libraries -- have far less money to spend on these items than they once did. Computerized

catalogue, subscription content, expensive scientific journals, exploding storage costs: all these demands are
iii library budgets.

io Blank

A. voluntaril G. putting tremendous pressure on

   

lyase +t
.

B. never E. an anomalous H. leading to irregularities in
C. readil F. an imperiled I. causing increasing appropriations

8. Persian prose writers from the second half of the twelfth century onward were characteristically (i)
the literary form of their works, a fact that some scholars have perceived as a derogation of those works
content. It may be better interpreted as (ii) the development of an awareness of authorship, for the
awareness of authorship (iii) the awareness of form.

 

ei Blankie [eo Blankie Blankie

A. ambivalent about D. a retreat from G. evolves through

 

B. indifferent to H. extends beyond
I. holds back

9. The difficulty of reforming electoral politics is not lack of right tools but the need to put them into the
hands of impartial agents: the goal should be to build capacity while partisanship.

A. expediting

B. constraining

C. facilitating

D. deterring

E. exacerbating

F. lamenting

 

10. Motivation is the hardest of all managerial tasks, and it is to expect a single memo, no matter how
well crafted, to have much effect on the staff's attitude.

A. ingenious

B. reasonable

C. fanciful

D. scrupulous

E. radical

11. Analysis of the structural features that were thought to kinship between the two species prompted
an investigation that dispelled that presumption and revealed that the two do share a family history.

A. signify

B. overemphasize

C. point to

D. preclude

E. rule out

F. exaggerate

79
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

TEST 18

1. As acritic, Nelson is noteworthy for her __; rather than presenting fully formed pronouncements, she is
willing to let us watch as she works out her ideas.

A. generosity

B. humility

C. integrity

D. modesty

E. eloquence

F. rhetoric

2. Business forecasts usually prove reasonably accurate when the assumption that the future will be much
like the past is ; in times of major shifts in the business environment, however, forecasts can be
dangerously wrong.

(A) questioned
(B) specified
(C) entertained
(D) revealed
(E) contradicted

3. While acknowledging behaviors the Prime Minister took in order to remain in office were (1) , some
politicians nevertheless believed that this small amount of (ii) was justified to keep a reforming
government in office.

 

       
    
 

    

ose Blanka

  

4. The narratives that vanquished peoples have created of their defeat have, according to Schivelbusch, fallen
into several identifiable types. In one of these, the vanquished manage to (i) the victor’s triumph as the
result of some spurious advantage, the victors being truly inferior where it counts. Often the winners

(ii) this interpretation, worrying about the cultural or moral costs of their triumph and so giving some
credence to the loser’s story.

D. take issue with

E. disregard

C. acknowledge

       
 
    
     

5. In recent decades the idea that Cezanne influenced Cubism has been caught in the (i) between art
historians who credit Braque with its invention and those who (ii) Picasso.

i at par ee Blank fy Sas
A. paradox D. tout
[C.ctossfire | FF. substitute

   

80

€ €¢ € € € €

C €¢ € €C ¢€

Cc ¢ ¢

C €¢ €C €C €

(
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4 vol. 2

6. The science of astronomy was begun by amateurs and today remains dependent on their contributions,
which are incisive by virtue of being by a_ prior assumption that often vitiates the work of
professional research scientists.

(A) characterized
(B) unencumbered
(C) supported

(D) contradicted
(E) inspired

7. It is part of human nature to resist change and (i) new ideas. This fact is evidenced in many
teachers’ (ii) adherence to archaic methodologies, which makes educational reform difficult to enact.
Until some (iii) teachers and administrators begin to welcome new classroom techniques, the attempts
of the current administration at modifying the system will be ineffective.

 

Blank iii

A. eschew /D. inept | G. sagacious

F. dogged

 

8. Reviews written by music critic and composer Stephenson were hardly (i)__: musicians who performed
his n music g eoule count on symp athetic average, while those who ignored him were held to (ii)__ standards.

A. disinterested _

  

F. accepted

9. There is ample evidence that men and women think, express themselves, and even experience emotions
differently, but in the area of sensory perception, psychologists are hard-pressed to identify major

A. difficulties

B. innovations

C. discrepancies

D. challenges

E. incongruities

F. trends

10. At its most basic, a spacesuit is meant to perform two nearly functions: protect the astronaut
from the harsh environment of space, and allow the wearer to maneuver and work comfortably.

A. complicated

B. incomparable

C. harmonious

D. unsound

E. incompatible

81
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

11. Until 1992, microprocessor types were identified by number, and for a long time they were considered so
that manufacturers would share design specifications for them.

A. fungible
B. perishable
C. integral
D. inimitable

F. immaculate

TEST 19

1. Many legislators who helped Roosevelt shape the New Deal the fact that emerging social problems
affected every segment of the population; nonetheless, they often acted with a view to aiding only their own
constituents.

A. disregarded
B. bemoaned
C. ignored

D. disputed

E. downplayed

2. The fact that "nano" is effectively only a unit of measure ("nano" refers to one billionth) means that
"nanoscience” occurs across a wide range of disciplines. Despite this (i) , the reason for (11)

 

nanoscale sciences and technologies (iii) is that at the nanoscale, objects can express different
properties from those observed for the same material at larger scales.

 
 
 
     

 
 

[Ay [demain —| 6. as they curently exist
H. as something distinct
F. delineating I. into multiple subspecialties

3. It turns out that the seeming spontaneity of his letter actually involved a good deal of : the writer
carefully revises them before mailing them, and he worked hard to establish the right tone.

A. deliberation

B. whimsicality

C. inventiveness

D. effort

E. capriciousness

F. consideration

82

C €¢ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € €

C

C
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

4. The same environmental processes that long ago caused the original degradation of the forest ecosystem
are acting as (i) its rehabilitation; scientists therefore intend to try to (ii) these processes in order
to prevent future damage to the ecosystem.

Blanki soo Blank ii ce

|A.signalsof | D. counter

E. facilitate
C. obstacles to

 

5. Saul Bellow's particular combination of intellectuality and vitality was not paradoxical. It was categoryshattering. _—swas, in a way, his very theme. Was ever a bookish soul so cracklingly , sO flush with
raw life? He was as vivid physically as he was mentally, almost perversely alert, completely at home in the
world of matter, repulsed b

G. tedium
|B. humility —_|

   

E. controlled
F. interrupted

6. We rightly think of Kafka as a sufferer and a victim, the tormented subject of nightmares, the man whose
initial identifies, in one novel, a figure caught up in an absurd trial and in another, the land surveyor we have
seen sleeping through his possible salvation. But we can also think of him as a master of nightmares, a
connoisseur of them, and we can remember that he smiled when he made his remark about the hope.

(A) rejection of

(B) obsession of
(C) plentitude of
(D) fixation of

(E) independence of

7. Though she acknowledges that modern farming practices are more (i) than traditional agriculture,
she nonetheless argues that this difference represents no real (ii) . Perhaps more worrying, however,
is her insistence that similar claims can be advanced regarding the treatment of farmers by an often

(iii) social hierarchy.

 

       

      

    
   

    
 

     
 
 

: ele es Blank deo 8) Blank dit ge
|A.expensive | D. progress |G. iniquitous

 
 

    

83
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

8. People love to talk about their commutes to and from work: those with an easy commute tend to (i) ,
while those who hate their commute think and speak of it as a core affliction, like a chronic illness. Once you
raise the subject, the testimonies pour out, and, if your ears are tuned to it, you begin overhearing commute
talk everywhere. People who are normally (ii) may, when describing their commutes, be

unexpectedly (iti) divulging the intimate details of their lives.

 

    
 

 
  

   

        
  

Blanki ‘Blank iii: 2
[C. gloat ————S—« circumspect S| I flusters about

 
  

amc Pe RCS Seer ye
Bee gee ee Ne UGE e aR REA ay
,

9. Noriko Iwasaki argues that second-language learners studying abroad generally learn mostly informal
language; consequently upon return their second-language speech is often marked by informal
language or a haphazard mix of informal and formal language.

A. a surfeit of

B. a facility with

C. a clumsiness with

D. an overuse of

E. an awkwardness with
F. an employment of

10. Since the results of the latest survey were , previous results gave researchers little relevant
experience for interpreting the new data.

A. unfounded

B. unexampled

C. unwarranted

D. unfathomable

E. unprecedented

F. unexceptionable

11. The sailors realized too late that winds had shifted the ice in such a way as to obstruct the ship's path;
this process had been so that it was completed by the time they discovered the effect.

A. gradual

B. negligible

C. unpredictable

D. time-consuming

E. inconsequential

F. imperceptible

84

C€ € € € € €

C € € € € € € € € € € € C€

C
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 48 vol. 2

TEST 20

1. Despite their modern reputation, the original Luddites were neither opposed to technology nor___ using
it. Many were highly skilled machine operators in the textile industry.

A. resistant to

B. inept at

C. enthralled by

D. unfazed by

E. heavy-handed at

F. impervious to

2. Experienced and proficient, Susan is a good, ------- trumpeter; her music is often more satisfying than
Carol's brilliant but erratic playing.

(A) virtuoso
(B) mediocre
(C) competent
(D) amateur
(E) reliable

3. The contemporary trend whereby fashion designers flout mainstream tradition is unique only in its ;
earlier fashion designers experienced the same impulse, albeit in a less extreme form.

 

A. subversiveness D. indiscriminate

C. palpabilit

 

4. There is no point in combing through the director’s work for hints of ideological significance. It is
unnecessary: his ideology—Marxist, anti-imperialist, aligned with the perceived interests of the powerless
and the marginal—is the (i) of his films. The clarity and force of that ideology are considerable, but its

(ii)

sometimes bothers critics, who often scold the director for lacking (iii)

 

  
 

  

A. hidden focus oe
PB chief impetus [E. obscuriy | Haute
F. feebleness |Tcourage

    

85
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4F7¢ vol. 2

5. It is (i) that so many portrait paintings are in art museums, since the subject matter seems to dictate
a status closer to pictures in the family photograph album than to high art. But perhaps it is the artistic skill
with which the portraits are painted that (ii) their presence in art museums.

    
 

     
  

ee Blankii
[C. surprising | Fuchanges

ES Blank Pe

 
  

6. Anthony Kenny states that although his A New History of Western Philosophy is intended for
undergraduates, he aimed to write it in a lighthearted manner that will give (i) to those who read the
history “not for curricular purposes but for their own enjoyment”. His book is certainly enlightening, and
although the bibliography includes technical works liable to (ii) the newcomer, the work is written at a
level that generally (iii between elementary and advanced.

G. strike a good balance
H. makes fine distinctions
|C.offense S| F. suit —_—_—‘| I. rejects the difference

 

  
 
  
 
 

         
 
  
 

 
 
  
 

7. The author claims that Korean film had fallen under governmental censorship since 1903, but in fact the
first laws (i) social or cultural activities were not (ii) until the second decade of the twentieth
century. Even so, she presents evidence to support the claim that there were reports of the (iii) of
police control of drama performances in 1909.

 

‘Blank i oe
ssi

      
     
 
 

 

‘Blanka,

yhake
sr Ser
5 Hise
e
°
0
=

 
  

E. justified
F. promulgated I. tightenin

8. The benefits offered by information technology do not (i) the need for individual reasoning; for
example, Internet user should not allow the reasoning process to be (ii) the mere accumulation raw
data.

 
 
   
     

 
 

“ae paki ee

9. With no artist in any art form is the life the work, exactly; still, each informs the other, and
illumination of the dynamic between them is the biographer's job.

A. predictive of

B. equivalent to

C. detectable in

D. preeminent over

E.inseparable from

F. primary to

86

€ € € € € €

(

C € € ¢€

C

C
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

10. Another challenge to biologists and land-use planners alike is that while human-induced changes to the
landscape are something , they can nevertheless drastically alter the habitat for some plants and
animals.

A. indisputable

B. inappropriate

C. unacceptable

D. unfathomable

E. imperceptible

F. indiscernible

11. The celebrities’ attitudes toward their glowing press are diametrically opposed: some think it and
others take the adulation seriously.

A. flummery

B. consequential

C. fanatical

D. coincidental

E. sincere

TEST 21

1. In American Indian art, the supposed distinction between modern and traditional was fabricated by critics,
and when artists have control over interpretation of their own work, the distinction appears, happily, to have
been

A. reinforced
B. intensified
C. eliminated
D. established
E. divested

F. put to rest

2. A certain degree of is always desirable in a published diary: a sense of authenticity and
“immediacy” is seldom worth someone’s flabby grammar or hasty phrasing.

A. confirmation

B. documentation

C. vindication

D. authentication

E. smoothing out

F. emendation

87
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37° vol. 2

3. In our present, imperfectly postmodern world, where most information still takes the potentially
embarrassing form of printed matter lurking in archives, liars still must position themselves so that the
historical record may not easily them.

(A) verify

(B) represent
(C) augment
(D) gainsay
(E) aggrandize

4. Although not enough to the conventional view of the manuscript’s provenance, the new
study was thought to have weakened the prevailing theory considerably.

A. undermine

B. affect

C. resurrect

D. disturb

E. topple

5. Viewing people as ‘’social atoms’’ that obey rather simple rule (which are not unlike the laws of physics),
one may discover certain (1) . Take, for example, the way channels emerge when people move in
crowds. In the midst of initially (ii) movements, one person begins to follow another—in an effort to
avoid collisions—and streams of movement emerge. As more people join in, there is greater pull on others to
join the flow, and the particular channels become (iii)

“A. ap arent t contradictions D. inflexible G. self-defeating

B. unproductive tendencies E. straightforward H. self-aggrandizing
C. lawlike regulations I. self-perpetuating

 

6. Artists whose roots were in painting and sculpture were delighted to find in a instant camera a
photographic mode that encouraged them to stop viewing photography as and start viewing it as
something they could handle with spontaneity, even derision

A. sacrosanct
B. ephemeral
C. malleable
D. sanctimonious
E. intractable

88

C €¢ € €¢ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € €

Fi
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

7. Medical researchers try to get their work published in well-regarded journals, where rejection rates can
climb above 90 percent. Not surprisingly, the studies that tend to make the grade are those with

(i) claims. But while coming up with such (ii)__ theories is relatively easy, the great majority
collapse under the weight of contradictory data when _.

       
  

   
 
 

    
 
 

          
  

      

1

1

      
 

‘Blank’ Blank’

at berries

a Bl Blank (

G. studied rigorous!

E. acknowledged H. dealt superficiall
C. self-deprecato I. treated equall

  

ank (i)

8. Throughout the twentieth century, African American members of Congress have not only (i)__ their
respective constituencies but also served as proxies in the democratic process for all Americans; yet the
biographies of certain of those members seem to (ii) _ their struggle to extend the ideals of the nation’s
founders to encompass all citizens.

   

A. disconfirmed ,

B. abandoned E. forestall

9. In their quest for kinder cutting, physicians increasingly rely on endoscopic surgery, replacing large
scalpels and clamps with cameras and tools that snake into the body through tiny holes.

A. exemplary
B. circuitous
C. flexible
D. indirect

E. laudable
F. elastic

10. Anthropologist Jane Goodall was in her determination to anthropomorphize the animals she
observed with such empathy, and so resisted her editors’ attempts to recast her descriptions in more
dispassionate language.

A. fickle

B. stalwart

C. solicitous
D. pretentious
E. whimsical

11. Not only is the advent of bookless or largely bookless libraries too large and powerful a change to be
, it also offers too many real advantages for it to be considered a tragedy.

A. averted

B. predicted

C. forestalled

D. endured

E. anticipated

F. sustained

89
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

TEST 22

1. Unlike some models of mathematical tasks that distinguish between lower and higher cognitive

demands, Carolyn Kieran’s model focuses only on the type of algebraic activity and thus is not
with regard to cognitive demand.

A. consistent

B. equitable

C. indeterminate

D. discriminatory

E. extraneous

2. The irony of digital networking is that it can produce more __ than did the geographical confinement it
supposedly transcended. As human interactions become physical location, people are less likely to
have regular dealings with others who do not share the same values and outlooks.

A. materialism
B. diversi
C. provincialism

     
  

      

       
 

    

3. As for the alleged value of expert opinion, one need only government records to see strong evidence
of the failure of such opinion in many fields.

(A) collect
(B) retain
(C) distribute
(D) consult
(E) evaluate

4. One of the most fundamental issues in the rainbow color scale is that the relationship among the colors is
not . The problem with the rainbow is that you don’t perceptually see it as ordered.

A. intuitive

B. unpredictable

C. selective

D. immediate

E. compatible

5. Recently the novelist has (i) the radically experimental forms with which he made his reputation in favor

of more (ii narratives, fencing in an imagination which is meant to run wild.

eae Blank 7 Ree ee Blank ip oo ee
A. trumpeted

B. forsaken

 

     
       

  

   
   
     

 
 

90

€ € € € € €

C € € € €

(

( ¢€

€ €¢ € € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

6. While some commentators suggest that abstraction and complexity in scientific research are signs that a
given direction is misguided, Lisa Randall, a professor of physics at Harvard, counters

that these qualities instead reflect the success of human ingenuity in (i) the increasingly (ii)
challenges that nature presents. They can, however, make it more (iii) to communicate scientific
developments, even to colleague.

“D. “difficult lc. challenging

B. meeting | E. conspicuous _| H. unproductive

7. The recent publication of the painter Robert Motherwell’s substantial body of writing, as well as writings
by fellow Expressionist Barnett Newman, (i) Ann Gibson’s assertion that the Abstract Expressionists
were reluctant to (ii) issues of artistic meaning in their work and suggests that this supposed reticence
was perhaps more artistic (iil) than historical fact.

 

 

8. No one would suggest that we might enhance our democracy simply by tuning in to the infinity of
conversations eternally buzzing away among us, or, by the same token, that we might (i) our politics
imp! by | active more talk. | In ane era of the eemet no further (ii) __ loquaciousness is necessary.

A. calibrate D. incitement to

  

9. Analysis of 47.5-ml-year-old fossils from Pakistan has yielded fresh insights into the early ancestors of
modern whales. For example, Maiacetus inuus was a land animal life in the sea. One Mariacetus
inuus fossial encased a fetus positioned for a head-first delivery, which is typical of a land mammal and
suggests the species gave birth onshore. But it probably spent much of its time : its big teeth were
suited for catching fish, while its flipper-like feet must have been walking.

2°] Blank iii:

D. in the v water G. incompatible with

E. fleeting from predators
F. on the land I. strengthened b

 

91
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4F& vol. 2

10. The controversy about his personality derives from the fact that our sources are famously (i) , all
eyewitness accounts having perished: what remains is, at best, (ii) (one history, for instance, is based
largely on the now-lost memoirs of Alexander’s general and alleged half-brother, Ptolemy) and at worst
highly unreliable
es Blank: 2 Blank

   
  
  
 

  
  
    

 

  

11. The professor frequently reiterated a basic assumption behind the experimental method---namely, that the
outcome of the experiment is always (i) . In other words, the hypothesis can never assume the
experiment's results, but instead must (ii) their appearance.

  
  

      
   

eo Es Blank: eo he S Blanka cae
|A.undetermined | D.await_
|B. incontrovertible | E.signal
[C. inconsequential | F. negate

 
     
   

TEST 23

1. The book reaffirms the idea that Africans on the continent have not stopped or responding to their
own creations; in fact, African creative agents have ushered in their own modem forms rooted in
traditional ideas.

A. exposing
B. detecting
C. absorbing
D. noticing
E. generating
F. originating

2. While the philosopher was known for valuing (i) in the classroom, she was also, by contrast, a

 

         

scrupulous and patient reviser, who (ii) her lectures for print.
Blanki | paki

A. predictability a D. superficially proofread

 

E. haphazardly adapted
F. laboriously reworked

92

CC € € € € €

f € €C €

C

( € €¢ € € € €

C

C
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3 vol. 2

3. Although the body of work by pre-Islamic Arabic poet al-Khansa’ consists almost exclusively of elegies, it
would be (i) to draw from this fact inferences about the poet's personal preoccupations: elegy was
the predominant genre for women poets of her time, providing al-Khansa’ a way to demonstrate her
(ii) _—s asset of generic conventions. If the convention for women was to write elegies and al-Khansa
wanted to be a (ili ; 20¢t, then she would rp roduce a great number of elegies.

D. disdain for

   

   

E. facility with

4. In the mid 1990s the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana pushed for a (an) restoration and
management plan that would meld federal, state, and local efforts with public participation to create a
focused blueprint for saving the state's beleaguered wetlands.

A. overreaching
B. overarching

C. comprehensible
D. acclaimed

E. spearheading

5. Once a duckling has identified a parent, the instinctive bond becomes a powerful (i) for additional
learning since, by (ii) the parent, the duckling can acquire further information that is not genetically
transmitted.

 
 
 
 

  

“A. channel ae
B. inspiration |E. recognizing |
C. referent LF. surpassing

    

6. Given how (i) the shortcomings of the standard economic model are in its portrayal of human
behavior, the failure of many economists to respond to them is astonishing. They continue to fill the journals
with yet more proofs of yet more (ii) theorems. Others, by contrast, accept the criticisms as a challenge,
seeking to expand the basic model to embrace a wider range of things people do.

 

A. overlooked D. comp vehensible

E. improbable

 

7. Nineteenth-century scholars, by examining earlier geometric Greek art, found that classical Greek art was
not a magical (i) or a brilliant construct blending Egyptian and Assyrian art, but was
(11) evolved by Greeks in Greece.

 
  
 

 
 
 
 

‘D. independently
E. symbioticall
F. syntheticall

 

93
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 472 vol. 2

8. Some forms of creative work have never been protected by American law. The study of these unprotected
forms of creativity ought to be of great interest. If we see these creative endeavors (i) as a result of
uncontrolled copying, we might decide to (ii) the law in order to curtail appropriation and induce
investment and innovation. On the other hand, if an unprotected area of creative work (iii) in the
absence of legal rules against copying, we would do well to know how. We might also ask whether other
currently protected forms of creativity could also flourish without expensive and potentially inefficient
monopoly protections.

     

    

 
  
  

   
   

Blank: Blank ‘Blankiii

 

9. Paul Robeson was a flesh-and-blood artist whose accomplishments made him susceptible to hagiographic
treatment by potential biographers. Robeson’s achievements were real, and there was no need for

A. disclosure

B. hyperbole

C. retraction

D. muckraking

E. reticence

10. While the writer was best known for her much-ballyhooed , her impact reached far beyond
memorable quips.

A. pensiveness

B. drollness

C. stoicism

D. fastidiousness

E. congenially

11. The serious study of popular culture by intellectuals is regularly credited with having rendered obsolete a
once-dominant view that popular culture is inherently inferior to high art. Yet this alteration of attitudes may
be somewhat (i) . Although it is now academically respectable to analyze popular culture, the fact that
many intellectuals feel compelled to rationalize their own (ii) action movies or mass-market fiction
reveals, perhaps unwittingly, their continued (iii) the old hierarchy of high and low culture.

     
 
  

       
    
  
 
  

‘Blank ii

SSIS Es

Blank fi

inttee? ofeecee: S28 aE at Se wide. Bao
OPREE eet : are . oF pine LERY NTE L ores get een GR Tes
.

A. counterproductive D. penchant for
B. underappreciated E. distaste for
C. overstated F. indifference to F. misunderstanding of

‘Blanki Go ii

94

C € € € € € € € € €

C € € €¢ € € € € ¢€

(
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 42 vol. 2

TEST 24

1. Travel writers have a special burden of forming story—that is, one with a beginning, middle, and
end—out of the unformed moments that make up the act of traveling.

A. a compelling
B. a coherent
C. an original
D. a serious

E. an orderly

F. an innovative

2. The author takes issue with the ideological blinders that have distorted much migration research,
especially modernization theorists and others for their untested assumptions of an immobile
preindustrial past.

A. undermining

B. citing

C. castigating

D. chastising

E. endorsing

F. commending

3. The idealized paintings of nature produced in the eighteenth century are evidence that the medieval fear of
natural settings had been (i) and that the outdoors now could be enjoyed without (ii)

  
   

      
 

 Blanki | Blake

   

    

4. The lack of (i) the poetry of the postwar decades has led not, as one might have hoped, to
(ii) poetry, but to the curious closure in which all poets and forms of poetry are (iii) and
alone, ev poets.

en respected establishment

D. a cheerful pluralism of
B.

   

   

    
  

  

consensus about | E. popular acceptance of H. revered

C. innovation in F. any experimentation in I. tolerate

95
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

5. As Juanita argued, this new code of conduct is laughable; its principles are either (i) , offering no
wisdom but the obvious, or are so devoid of specific advice as to make almost any action (ii)

       

A. labyrinthine D. redundant
E. unacceptable

C. platitudinous F. justifiable

    

6. Although Uruk in southern Mesopotamia has been (i) as being both the first city and the model for
later ones, at least two sites in northern Mesopotamia have yielded clear evidence of urbanization long before
the existing evidence from Uruk, and other discoveries indicate that some of the (ii) early urbanism
were invented not in southern Mesopotamia but in the north. These findings have led some archaeologists to
(iii) a serious reconsideration about when and where the first cities arose.

  
  
  

  
  

   

  
  
  

  
  
  

  
  
  

 
   

  
  
   

  
  
  

      
    
 

 
  

 

  

mph DN Te they Meek tes
whee i I

f _Blankii

Blank it

A. established D. defining features of
C. presented F. traditional theories about I. propose

7. For some, the power of omens and signs is easy to dismiss as (i) belief, based on (ii) evidence,
that the future can be foretold by specific, unrelated events. For others, though, those same omens and signs
are clear and reliable markers of (iii) events.

   

 
 

 

|A.adogmatic | D.empirical___| G.incipient__|

B. an irrational . substantiated | H. hypothetical

C. a heretical | F. circumstantial | I. erroneous

 

8. A certain is built into the work, which is both epic and chamber opera, brutal and plaintive
in equal measure, and which embodies in the underlying folkloric strains of much of its music a kind of
occulted entirely at odds with the debacle it chronicles.

         
      

     
 

  

 

A. inani
B. predictabili
C. contradictoriness

F. obstreperousness

   

96

¢

C € € € € € € € € €

Cc €¢ €C ¢

Cc ¢€ €

C
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

9. Some researchers worry that if there is a causal relationship between warming tropical sea surface
temperatures and the marked increase in Atlantic hurricane activity since the early 1990s, this connection
could larger changes.

(A) forestall
(B) exacerbate
(C) obscure
(D) avert

(E) portend

10. As a result of lacking a strong opposing organization to , the chief focused their rancor on one
another at the conference where the issues were put forward and intended to be resolved.

A. immolate

B. excoriate

C. parley

D. exterminate

E. collaborate

11. Doris Kearns Goodwin has written an elegant, incisive study of Lincoln and leading members of his
cabinet that will experts as well as to those whose knowledge of Lincoln is an amalgam of high school
history and popular mythology.

A. gratify
B. deny

C. please
D. estrange
E. alienate
F. gainsay

TEST 25

1. It is perhaps a truism that popular art forms conceal a daunting complexity: what appears simple and
almost without fail quickly becomes intricate and challenging.

A. tedious

B. canned

C. convoluted

D. vacuous

E. tortuous

F. formulaic

97
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

2. For literary critics and book reviewers, the notion of critical authority has become in an age of
quick, teeming Internet response, where all the old critical standards and parameters are in

the process of being reinvented.

A. fluid

B. transparent

C. obvious

D. unstable

E. justifiable

F. defensible

3. Even though the original settlement may not hold up, it at least proves that the deadlock can be broken and that
a hitherto party is ready to bargain.

A. implacable

B. unyielding

C. unpredictable

D. unconditional

E. unqualified

F. capricious

4. Asmall group of farsighted statesmen who created the European Union practiced piecemeal social
engineering. Recognizing that perfection is (i) _, they set limited objectives and then mobilize the
political will for a small step forward knowing full well that when they achieved it, its (ii) would
parent and necessitate further measures.

   

   
    

 

  

5. Books on statistics frequently use the (i) paradox between attitudes about flying and driving as
evidence of the public’s (it) understanding of probability. Even though fliers have a much lower risk of
injury or death than drivers, people consistently attest to having fewer (iii) about driving than flying.

=== Blanki' |) Blankii))| © Blankiii |
[C-siblant | F-obligtory [L qualms

 

6. Some paleontologists debate whether the diversity of species has (i) since the Cambrian period, or
whether imperfections in the fossil record only suggest greater diversity today, while in actuality there
has been either (ii) or decreased diversity.

a ‘Blankio 28h Blank iio)
A. changed D. escalation

B. declined

C. increased F. stasis

 

98

C € € € € € € € € € € € € € €

Cf € € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 38 vol. 2

7. The usual (i) spending public monies on scientific projects large and small is that they have the
potential to make our lives longer, healthier, safer, and more pleasant. That science, even “pure” science, can
strengthen democracy and promote public participation in the political process, both in the United States and
throughout the world, is hardly ever (ii) . It should be. Scientific literacy (iii) democracy, and this
portant ancillary benefit of the promotion of science.

Po em eee ns 2) Blank iii:

 

    

   
 

  
    
    

 
  

| Blankii® = [I

A. rationale for D. compromised G. galvanizes

      
    
  

|B. argument against —s—s| E. gainsaid [| H. enervates
C. precedent for

  

8. Even though the government is not totally the positive review about the charter, the mayor
nevertheless decides to veto the laws.

(A) garrulous about

(B) enthusiastic about

(C) sanguine about

(D) approbatory to

(E) unsympathetic with

 

9. It is often argued that religion and its rituals, which were (i)__at that stage of the eighteenth century,
provided the main filter by which death could be looked at, now largely replaced by medicine, which
provides both a mindset and practical measures by which death may be (ii) , and in terminal illness,
approached. But I have argued that the ideological function of religion in mediating death, in making sense
of mortality, and in linking us to the dead, has in large measure been taken on not so much by (iii)__—_as by
the mass media.

E. abused

 

10. Common and easily accessible resources--prey for predators or hosts for parasite--should be, all other
things being equal, used frequently. Still, some apparently accessible and suitable resources remain

A. vulnerable
B. unobtainable

C. sustainable
D. depleted
E. unexploited

11. In the new biography, Pembrook doesn't (i) the aspects of her subject that have drawn criticism but
instead creates them with considerable (ii) : hardly a fact or assertion goes by her without being

sourced in
Sh Se Blank Poe cee Pe ee
A. explain

B. acknowledge E. comprehensiveness

the endnotes.

   

   

99
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 42 vol. 2

TEST 26

1. The research committee urged the archaeologist to her claim that the tomb she has discovered was
that of Alexander the Great since her initial report has been based only on conjecture.

A. strengthen
B. undermine
C. undercut
D. substantiate
E. reinforce

F. corroborate

2. There is a risk in vagueness in speech: all kinds of distortions and lies can go unrecognized in the
general haziness and so come off as facts.

A. detecting

B. sanctioning

C. castigating

D. countenancing

E. discerning

F. perpetuating

3. To a person natural history, his country or seaside stroll is a walk through a gallery filled with
wonderful works of art, nine-tenths of which have their faces turned to the wall.

A. enamored of

B. uninstructed in

C. responsive to

D. disillusioned with
E. dependent on

4. The natural landscape on which we live represents a temporary (i) building and destroying forces.
Erosional forces are merit enough to reduce all the continents to broad, rolling plains in only a few million
ears. In most places, roe ue reduction i is ii tectonic and volcanic forces.

E. prevented b
F. attributed to

   
    
     

  

100

( € € € € € € € €

c

Cc ¢ € ¢€

C € € € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

5. A war, even if fought for individual and democratic rights, usually requires that these principles be
(i) , for they are (ii) the regimentation and discipline necessary for military efficiency.

     

   
   

  
 

Blankie Blankii
D. incompatible with

F. fulfilled through

    

  
 

6. Evidence has been accumulating since the 1930s that reducing an animals energy intake below its energy
expenditure extends the life span and delays the (i) of age-related diseases in rats, dogs, fish, and
monkeys. Such results have inspired thousands of people to (ii) in the hope of living longer, healthier
lives. They have also led to a search for drugs that (iii) the effects of calorie restriction without the
pain of actually going on a diet.

 

 

—Blankii |] 2 Blankiii_

D. eat healthier foods

E. put up with constant hunger | H.mimic
C. treatment F. take vitamin supplements I. delay

 

7. The motives of many major investors in Pop Art have arguably been to a large extent, (i) . These
collectors demonstrate and enhance their power over the art market by establishing seemingly arbitrary
works of art as priceless. This phenomenon reveals that (ii) is not (iii) of truth or beauty, but
simply a trick of investment capital.

 

i

  

;
B. ambiguous

 

ee 5 ER Heh Pees
‘ Viesie Ricals
*

I. a limitation

8. There are two opposing theories about mountain formation and climate over the past 40 million years:
either the surge of mountain building (i) the global cooling, or vice versa. The first of these two theories
asserts that widespread mountain building cooled the earth as a result of the (ii) mountains and climate.
For example, mountain glaciers tend to be (iii)__: once established, they increase the reflectivity of the
surface, thus lowering the temperatures and allowing more ice to form.

F. feedback between

 

    

   
  
 

 
      
 
       

101
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

9. Susan Tayler’s accomplishment is not one: her book makes the topic accessible to a general
audience while still providing the sort of analysis that scholars demand.
A. a trivial

B. a fascinating
C. a questionable
D. an insignificant
E. an intriguing

F. an amusing

10. Tom Wolfe credited Talese with stirring a revolution in reporting that Wolfe christened the “new

journalism.” This pronouncement was not . Gay Talese’s outré method of framing and developing his
“factual short stories” was as groundbreaking as it is still arresting.

A. hyperbole

B. paradox

C. inevitability
D. compliment
E. warrant

11. At least one otter species, the sea otter, has a large, often dominating, effect on the structure of its own
habitat. There is no evidence that other species have ever exercised such (i) effects. That lack of
evidence could merely be because the other species have been studied less thoroughly. However, the size and
density of the historic sea otter populations in many Pacific coastal regions (ii) those of other otter
necies elsewhere, so perhaps the sea otter is indeed (iii in its effects on habitat.

‘Blanki <).."| Blank “ce Blankie
D. vastly exceed
I. transito

 

   
  
       

    
  

 

  

   

     
   

TEST 27

1..Regardless of the putative/decline of (i) in contemporary culture, such (ii) remains essential to
civil discourse. It allows people to avoid embarrassing or maligning an adversary, and it serves as a form of
lil that draws attention to a problem that can scarcely be exaggerated.

 Blanki fou) ec Blankie ie

 

 
     
    
 

  
   
     
    

 

       
 

   

Me
Lee
hiss 3

°

A. understatement
C. partisanship |F.restraint == [. irony

  

2. The critical analysis of the works of Shakespeare has yet to become ; the sheer volume and
complexity of his writings ensure that there will always be more to analyze.

\X. marginalized
/S. unavailable
C. comprehensible
D. depleted
a uncompromising

é

102

C€ €¢ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € €
uy
LA

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 374 vol. 2

3. Some suggest that students who are granted privileges receive them because their teachers wish to make
the students ; more probably, causality flows in the opposite direction, in that teachers are likely to
grant privileges to diligent students.

A. excitable

B. independent
C. malleable
D.. grateful

‘EZ. conscientious

4. Martyn Amos appositely quotes one of the last remarks of Richard Feynman, the great physicist and
prophet of nanotechnology: “What I cannot create I do not understand”, True enough, but it does not follow
that creating something means fully understanding it, and one can only be confident that new technologies,’
like the car and the mobile phone in the past, will have . How boring and pointless life
would seem, if it were not so.

A. witty expectations

B. well designed structures

C. unpredicted consequences

D. self-fashioning trend

E. subliminal level of perception

5. If the expression “invention of Western romantic love” seems like a contradiction, it is because we so
often assume Jeve as we know it to be(natural, to exist in some ¢ssential sense, that is, always to have existed. )
Nothing, liowever, could be further from the truth. For love, urflike the discourse of misogyny of the

Christian West, has an internal history expressed both as \¥ ~_and a difference from itself.

A. an evolutionary shift

B. a eternal repetition

C. a universal existence

D. an unchanged exemplar
‘E/a nonmaterial abstractness

6. A newly published, laudatory biography of Alan Ginsberg fails, like others before it, to capture the
essence of his personality: the more he is (i) , the more his true self seems to (ii)

  
 

   

    

disapp pear

C , disregarded F, coalesce

  

103
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 48 vol. 2

7. If one could don magic spectacles—with lenses that make the murky depths of the ocean become
transparent—and look back several centuries to an age before widespread abuse of the ocean began, even the
most (i)__ observer would quickly discover that fish were formerly much more abundant. Likewise, many
now-depleted species of marine mammals would appear (ii) . But without such special glasses, the
differences between past and present oceans are indeed hard to (iii)

  
       
   
   
   

8. Very good and very bad books are easy to review. Praise and come easily. But what of books that
contain a muddle of virtues and vices? Here the reminder’s task is more : the author’s useful and
thought provoking observations need to be the useless and tedious.

G supplanted b

Hi’ sifted from
I. overshadowed b

 

9. Neither of the lead actors appears to be working up a sweat; in many ways, they are perfectly mated-perhaps too perfectly, for it turns out that a bit of (i) might have helped this movie. While it has many
lovely and funny moments, there’s not a lot going on. Dramatically, it's (ii) to the point of (iii)
senteee ma not be an sweat, but hee 9 isn ‘tan heat, either.

ei ee Blank i iii Eble

De chilling

 

"tension E. mellow =~ H.. inertia
: shock

 

10. Suspicion is arguably a natural self-protective instinct essential to the survival of individuals and
societies: a human being or community that is totally is inviting trouble.
A. exultant
_B. regressive
C. reclusive
D. ingenuous
‘E” apprehensive

 

104

( ({ ¢€

€ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37°& vol. 2

11. That today’s students of American culture tend to (i) classical music is understandable. In our
own time, American’s musical high culture has degenerated into a formulaic entertainment divorced from the
contemporary moment, Thus, to miss out on what our orchestras are up to is not to (ii) much. In the
late Gilded Age, however, music was widely esteemed as the “queen of the arts.” Classical music was in its
American heyday, (iii) the culture at large.

     
 

  
      

Sper Popsb lapse edie

A. promote |D. sacrifice  —_—s«i| G. antagonistic toward
B. reinterpret |E. appreciate si H. generally rejected b
/E/malign ——s[\& centrally embedded in

   

 

TEST 28

1. There is a somewhat (i) trend emerging in property law today: though property law historically has
been used to legitimize the conquest of indigenous lands, indigenous groups worldwide are now (ii)

this same body of law to lay claim to their own cultural resources.

i Blanki = o] lank ii

    

   

2. It remains to be shown how large the differences are between humans and other animals. Although Wynne

claims to recognize that __ data are available to make definitive statements/he offers them nonetheless,

arriving at some sweeping generalizations. | a
“meager

B. appropriate

s/n
_D. insufficient

,-7 E. biased
..;, F. impartial

3. The journey to(i) /when it starts from a vantage as eminent as Dunbar’s, is often as (ii) as the
path to glory. How did a writer of talent5a writer whom Yeats compared to Baudelaire, and who once had
five plays on in New York at the same time—wind up nearly, if not quite, (iii) ?

Blanki. 5) Blank ii | Blankie

G. complicated

1 overestimated
W.genius | mundane |W forgotten

 

105
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

4. Various factors complicate researchers’ efforts to study time spent on housework. For example,

housework may not stand out much in respondents’ memories because it is so (1) everyday life, and
ii problems among survey subjects may thus be more severe than for other activities.

= Blank icc ee Blank ie

\Wintegralto | D. Jogistical

    
 
   
  
 

  

 

   

5. The thinker claimed that a person who must consciously (i) his or her own indifference before
helping another’ is behaving more nobly than one Whose basic disposition allows such an act to be performed
without (ii . a
oe Blank i :

6. Consumers have (i) so much choice in entertainment. In 2008, 610 films were released in the
United States. Cable and satellite television are increasing the number of channels while demand for online
video continues to grow. Though some experts predicted that the few products that sell a lot were losing
market share to the great many that (ii) , according to data released by Time Warner, Gales of
blockbuster and niche films are doing extremely wellfahite those that occupy the middle ground between
blockbusters and niches are losing out. | ,

  
     

   
  
  
   

ao

 

   

Herp theese MaDe ber EE gS ae
hob ose ahs aye

     
  

oO" Fo Blank ii oe

      

    
 

     
    

   

" wee tte Maps
: er acs
i SESTSPIIS Beet a
*

i Hoes Blank ie ee
4’ never been bombarded with D. advertise exponentiall
B. always been puzzled with YY. appear to be impressive to audience

C. never been better satisfied with F. sell modestly

7. Although strong legal remedies for nonpayment of child support are available/ the delay and expense
associated with these remedies make it to develop other options.

(A) predictable
B) impossible
(C) ridiculous
(D) impractical
(E) indispensable

106

C € € € € € € € € € € € € € €

(

€ ¢€¢ € €
* ,

|

|

c

 

 

A, vindicated
B. unmistakable E. responsibilities
C. unverifiable g

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 374 vol. 2

8. It appears we cannot keep ourselves from semiconsciously reading our own dynamics into buildings and
correlating the pairs that certain examples display with (i) _—.__ of our own characters. Thetension
between curves and straight lines in a facade carries echoes of the pul] between reason and emotion in
ourselves. It is a human integrity that we see in unvarnished wood, and a human (ii) in gilded panels.

1. 1

Blankie

Hi

A. one-sidedness |. hedonism

B. complementary forces | E. asceticism —_—|

9. As the finances of the energy-trading firm began unraveling, what eventually became (i) was that
the company _had been concocting “value” out of thin air, thanks not to the trading strategies it promoted as
visionary but to-financial (ii) that turned a onve- soi entity into the most notorious (iii) in an

era of corporate scandals. a,

    
 

   

KY

|

  

I. debacle

 

Cc : ,
. ~¢

10. A particular bacterium that has never encountered a particular ‘virus will usually succumb to it, a

that may, surprisingly, be beneficial to the colony in which the bacterium lives.

A, susceptibility

~~ 'B. theory

C. characteristic
D. juxtaposition

| . collision
_- \F hypothesis
11. In a strong indication of the way the entire party is the candidate with moderate credentialy, the

outspokenly consérvative former mayor of a major city has promised to raise a substantial amount of money
for the candidate’s campaign.

WV rallying behind

B. incensed over

C. undecided about

D. mortified over

E. embarrassed about

F. coalescing around

107
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

TEST 29

1. During the eighteenth century, improvements in their material circumstances did not necessarily mean
expanded independence for women elite families and, arguably, the social conventions of gentility
more of their time and energy.

A. proved

B. justified

C. demanded
D. granted

E. exacted

F. rationalized

2. Shawn was criticized by his fellow lawyers not because he was not hardworking, but because he so
prepared his cases that he failed to bring the expected number to trial.

(A) knowledgeably
(B) enthusiastically
(C) rapidly

(D) minutely

(E) efficiently

3. Ironically, Carver's precision in sketching lives on the edge of despair ensures that his stories will
sometimes be read too narrowly, much as Dickens’ social-reformer role once caused his broader concerns to
be

(A) ignored

(B) reinforced
(C) contradicted
(D) diminished
(E) diversified

4. It is ironic that Mary Shelley's focus on Victor's passivity renders the reader incapable of sympathizing
with the protagonist, much as Dostoyevsky's depiction of the darkest places in the human psyche once
caused his empathy for his characters to be

A. rescinded

B. commiserated
C. occluded

D. disregarded
E. lambasted

108

Cc ¢€¢ € € € € € € € €

fC €¢ € € € €

C ¢

c ¢€
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 478 vol. 2

5. An innovation of the eighteenth-century cookbook writer Mary Cole was that in her work she (i)

the earlier books from which her recipes were drawn. Even in those numerous instances in which she had
collated into a single version, which she could have called her own, the recipes of several earlier writers, she
(ii) them.

            
     
  
  
 

      

   

   

    

  

os fart state
ve feet sees

    

 

vferrspayersy peanives

B

 

fl Baki le io

C. acknowledged

  

6. It is always (i) to realize a generation has grown up never knowing what it was like to control
without something that is taken for granted today. A case in point: the World Wide Web, which celebrated the
20th anniversary of its introduction last Saturday. It is no exaggeration to say that not since the invention of
the printing press has a new media technology altered the way people think, work and play quite so
extensively. With the web having been so thoroughly embraced socially, politically and economically, the
world has become (ii) place.

A. extremely subtle D. a more unfamiliar

[oi Baki

B. a little disconcerting E. an almost the same

C. quite encouraging F. an entirely different

 

7. In India some of academic feminists know that they live in the middle of a fiercely unjust reality; they
cannot live with themselves without addressing it more or less daily, in their theoretical writing and in their
activities outside the seminar room. In the United States, however, things have been changing. It is not only
that feminist theory pays relatively little attention to the struggles of women outside the United States.
Something more insidious than (i) has come to prominence in the American academy. It is
virtually complete turning from the material side of life, toward a type of (11) politics that
makes only a flimsiest of connections with the real situation of real women.

  
    

      

      

7  Bianki
A. universalism

D. exaggerated and bombastic
B. disingenuousness E. practical and visible

C. provincialism F. verbal and symbolic

8. Computers make it spectacularly easy to search for particular pieces of information in downloaded texts.
Reading in this strategic, targeted manner can feel (i) . Instead of (ii) the organizing logic of the
book you are reading, you can approach it with your own questions and (iii) what you want from it.
You are the master, not some dead author.

FOES Bs PG cP eu hii et ae Py. GEN
é
cya
a ro
* we
%

H :

  

 

 

 

     
  

 
 
 

_ Bink
L i

    
   
    

 
   

glean precisel

   

109
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3 vol. 2

9. The politician was famously restrained, with a tendency to focus his fury inward: while he would defend
himself publicly against detractors' attacks, he would never stoop to

A. refutation
B. adjuration
C. fulmination
D. asseveration
E. ingratiation

10. Unquestionably, the particular forms that folly and cruelty take in Jane Austen’s novels are (i) the
character’s social milieu, which was also Austen’s own; but to realize that one’s society motivates people in
unfortunate ways is not necessarily to (ii)

it, for the alternatives, though different, might be no more

  
 
 

  

A. shaped b D. expose G. saluta
B. removed from |E.condemn sid H. corrosive
C. unrecognizable in F. rationalize lI. realistic |

      

11. Among geophysicists there was considerably less (i) the proposed environment measure
than the (ii) __—s media accounts of the conference would suggest: the debate was often
Animated but never sak

A. ambivalence toward | D. sanitized

 

B. satisfaction with E sensationalized

C. rancor over g

TEST 30

1. Through of style, tone, and diction, a great writer can, in a single work of fiction, take
readers in and out of the vernacular of characters as different as an Appalachian college freshman, a visiting
professor from Cambridge, and an Italian-American Brooklyn police officer.

A. instances
B. modulation
C. steadiness
D. use

E. meditation
F. nuances

110

C € € ( €

{ € € €

¢c ¢€

c

CC € € €¢ € € €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 478 vol. 2

2. James Boswell’s Life of Samuel Johnson is generally thought to have established Boswell as the first great
modern biographer; yet the claim of could be made for Johnson himself as author of a life of Richard
Savage.

A. partisanship
B. omniscience
C. precedence

D. opportunism
E. perseverance

3. Many find it strange that her writing is thought to be tortuous; her recent essays, although longer than most
of her earlier essays, are extremely

A. painstaking
B. terse

C. lucid

D. sophisticated
E. insightful

4, Because we assume the (i) of natural design, nature can often (ii) us: as the Wright brothers
noted, the birds initially misled them in almost every particular, but their Flyer eventually succeeded by
being the least avian of the early flying machines.

“oS Blank do 8. |

A. quirkiness D. galvanize
B. i

preeminence E. befriend
C. maladroitness g

 

5. Genetic researchers have recently suggested that our political learnings may be determined by our DNA, a
view that tends to undermine our reflective _ self-flattery. We (i) the idea that personal politics are
entirely (ii) . The genetic explanation for ideology (iii) our belief that we are persuaded only by
rational arguments.

 

    
 

  

  
 
 
 

  
 
 

     
     

4 a]
¥ Wierd

  

— S Blank (ie [oe Blank: Blank (iii)
|B.revelin | E. inexpensive ——S———s| Heentails,
|C. puzzle over | F.self-serving [| Nparallels,

 
       

111
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

6. Far from (i) the actions taken by the newspaper’s executives, Willes praised the executive’s
resistance to corruption — yet he doubted that their policies were practical enough to warrant (ii) by
other papers.

ase RES Urea ste SES

A. lionizing |D. criticism

pugning E. admiration
C. surveying F. emulation

 

7. To the untutored eye the tightly forested Ardenners hills around Sedan look quite (i) , (ii)
place through which to advance a modern army, even with today’s more numerous and better roads and
bridges, the woods and the river Meuse form a significant (iii)

       
       
   

     

 
 

pecahauites geet 2534
hones e $9
ear : :

Blanki) 2 Blankie | Blank ii
A. impenetrable D. a makeshift

B. inconsiderable E. an unpropitious H. impediment

C. uncultivated F. an unremarkable |Ipassage sd

8. Like many eighteenth-century scholars who lived by cultivating those in power, Eberhart neglected to
neutralize, by some gesture of comradeship, the resentment his peers were bound to feel because of
his the high and mighty.

Baki Bak
D. involvement with

C. propitiatory F. questioning of

 

9. It is possible that the earliest terrestrial plants were (i) natural enemies, such as herbivores.
By the mid-Carboniferous period, however, there was abundant evidence--in the form of fossil leaves with
signs of bite marks-that plants were (ii animal attack.

Blanki. 2 | Blankie

A. susceptible to

   

B. overwhelmed b

10. The book is impressively , drawing from multiple disciplines and perspectives, and resting on
diverse and extensive archival sources, autobiographies, published collections of letter, and

works of history.

A. learned

B. progressive

C. comprehensive

D. concise

E. succinct

F. erudite

112

€ € € € € € 4 €

« € €

~~
—_

c

( € € € €

€ ¢€¢ €
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 38 vol. 2

11. It may be that a kind of pendulum is built into United States politics: if a particular interest group scores
a major victory, its supporters (i) and its adversaries (ii) their efforts, so that the victory is

    

    

         
  
    
   

     
   

 

neko . 2
ae

‘Blankie Blank ii 84) Blank iii ee
A. consider new possibilities
B. grow complacent E. redouble
C. become even more focused F. defend

  

TEST 31

1. Some of the company’s supporters charged that the negative report had been motivated by a broader
political assault on the company that was designed to help market rivals who would like to see the company

A. bolstered
B. reined in

C. indemnified
D. propped up
E. lionized

F. manacled

2. Although evolutionary psychologists do not seem quite as imperialist in their intellectual ambitions as
their sociobiologist forebears of the 1970s, they tend, in some critics' view, to be no less in their
claims.

 

A. abashed
B. arrogant
C. impetuous
D. hubristic
E. narcissistic
F. diffident

3. Women in the mining towns of the American West were strictly stereotyped into neat categories of public
and private, good and bad, but the 100 intrepid female prospectors in Zanjani’s book managed to (i)
those categories. In addition to providing documentation that demolishes the all-male version of prospecting,
Zanjani uses the examples of her female loners to (ii) some of the (ili) generalizations about
Euro-American women as uniformly nurturant and sociable pioneers.

° i i t

 

      

[A.inhabit_ | D. puncture GG
F I.

113
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

4. For all its incidental , areader could finish reading Martin Tandon’s Blue Dog feeling that too
much had been sacrificed to the jokes; it is not that Tandon’s distinctive gifts have ever been self-effacing
ones, but there were moments in that book when the world was being just too deliberately shrunk to fit the
satire’s demands.

A. perplexing situations
B. comic felicities

C. tragic moments

D. awkward transition
E. deliberation

5. Despite the (i) of time, space, and history, human societies the world over have confronted the same
existential problems and have come to remarkably (ii) solutions, differing only in superficial details.

 

or ISSPELEST TESTS qe og oe - -"
me ‘ Bee ee
U

A. contingencies

B. exigencies [E.similar

6. Before Darwin, increasing numbers of discoveries of the bones of extinct animals had been made, more by

 

(i) than design. While strain they put on the religious academic was great, the response was
(ii) . The Oxford geologist and paleontologist the Revd William Buckland, for example, a member
of a now sadly extinct Oxford species, had strong (iii) , but he was determined to form an honest

opinion on what were seemingly tropical bones which he had excavated in a cave at Kirkdale.

    
 

          
   

rebecca

A. chance D. not stuffily conservative G. antediluvian prejudices
B. destin E. theoretically affirmative H. objective theories

C. opportunity F. remarkably restrained

        
  

   

7. The (i) nature of the candidate’s comments is calculated. As a long -standing target of critics who
regard him as a radical, he understands that he needs to be as (ii) as possible if he is to overcome those
critiques and appear as a (iii) leader.

 

   

     
      

-Blank: ee <) Blank ‘iii. 5
| A. opprobrious__| D. innocuous___—|G. polarizing
|B. platitudinous | E. truculent___—| H. cautious

114

\eee!

€ 4

c

Cc € € € €

€ € € € € € € € € € €
\eome!

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

8. There are many insights in the essay collected in Observations on Modernity, but they are embedded in a
dense English translation of a dense German original that may make many of them to most readers.

A. vapid
B. inaccessible
C. sagacious

 

D. banal

E. distressing

F, opaque

9. Though extremely (i) about his own plans, the man allowed his associates no such privacy and was
constantly (ii) information about what they intended to do next.

Poh Sept EET

oe Blankie 8 “Blank a

A. fastidious |D. soliciting

B.uncommunicative | E. altering =|
C. idiosyncratic F. covering

 

10. Each new generation of students grow up (i) the world of classical physics, with its mostly intuitive,
billiard-ball causality; that is the everyday vantage from which we approach the alien world of quantum
physics, which has for this reason never lost its air of (ii) :

Blank Blankie

     
         

11. In film studies--a visually oriented discipline that is backlit close-ups, eye line matches, and
voyeuristic gazes--scholars have often been tone-deaf to the sounds of music.

A. fixated on

B. obsessed with

C. unconcerned with

D. amused by

E. bothered by

F. indifferent to

TEST 32

1. Space is often referred to as the final frontier, as the only realm of which humankind has still to gain
substantial understanding, yet the ocean realm is another vast area about which our knowledge is

A. erroneous
B. confusing
C. frustrating
D. rudimentary
E. delusive
F. sketchy
115
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

2. It would have been disingenuous of the candidate to appear when her opponent won the election, but
she congratulated the victor nonetheless.

A. gracious
B. ecstatic
C. crestfallen
D. unctuous
E. indifferent

3. The municipal Traffic Planning Department here in Zurich has been working overtime in recent years to

drivers. Closely spaced red lights have been added on roads into town, causing delays and angst for
commuters. Pedestrian underpasses that once allowed traffic to flow freely across major intersections have
been

i =| Blankie

E. added

 

4. Although the mental process that creates a fresh and original poem or drama is doubtless that which
originates and elaborates scientific discoveries, there is clearly a discernible difference between the creators.

(A) peripheral to
(B) contiguous with
(C) opposed to

(D) analogous to
(E) inconsistent with

5. Susan Sontag wrote in a style that is a model for its lack of (i) , and this refusal on her part to make
things easier for the reader is enormously (11) : she respects your intelligence enough to make you
wrestle down each of her sentences before moving on to the next one and you feel smarter for having done
SO.

A. presumption . i

 

B. distortion E. enervating
|C. condescension _—si| FF. flattering

6. The idea that historical periods are “sets of coherences” is a standard notion among professional historians,

but it has seldom been set forth (i) as in K. Rabb’s The Last Days of the Renaissance. Circling
artfully around his subject, the author provides general treatments, in chronological sequence, of the periods
that both preceded and (ii) the Renaissance, on the assumption that it would be impossible

      

characterize the age at the center of his inquiry.

 

otherwise to
Oh EES va ES Blanka 6 2

   
 
  

=< Blank i :

A. with undeniable strength __

 
 

 
 
 

B. with grace or readabili
C. with a grave tacitumity F, exemplified

116

fé € € € € € €

t €

C€ ¢€¢ © € € ©)
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

7. Descartes opened many doors, but there was one which he closed firmly—the door to the history of
scholarship. His (1) about received views meant that the learning of the past, and the story of how
it came into being, were of no interest to him. Bacon, on the other hand, was , and left the door ajar
with his plan for a universal history of learning.

wintgesttene
R22

Blank’ uke

Bianki= |

7 Tl
D. antiquated
B.

skepticism E. more progressive
F. less radical

 

8. They pay little attention to the opposite and more treacherous failing: false certainty, refusing to confess
their mistakes and implicitly claiming (i) thereby embarrassing the nation and undermining the
Constitution, which established various mechanisms of self-correction on the premise that even the wisest
men are sometimes wrong and need, precisely when they find it most (ii) , the benefit of
(iii) process.

Blank ii =

A. infallibili D. discomfiting G. an adaptable

!B. immunity E. expedient H. a remedial
C. impartiali F. imminent I. an injudicious

 

9. For many in the room, the idea of coming to the assistance of a rival was more than unpleasant: it was
A. meretricious

B. maundering

C. anathema

D. unpropitious

E. wistful

 

10. The simultaneous ascension of both the bulldozer and “bulldozer books” was far from * it
reflected the social, political, and cultural preoccupations of their era undergoing massive physical upheaval.
A. coincidental

B. calculated

C. discouraging

D. significant

E. disruptive

117
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

11. (i) may sound like the (ii) novelty seeking, but in fact the latter can coexist with and
balance that stick-to-it virtue strong-willed Victorians so promoted.
B yebaa k ; me i u lan tet ge ¢

D. antithesis of

           

E. foundation for

TEST 33

1. The ex-minister’s real crime, in the eyes of his political friends who subsequently abandoned him,
was not so much that he was wrong as that he raised questions that must not be raised.

A. erstwhile
B. proxy

C. false

D. self-styled
E. onetime
F. surrogate

2. Early studies often concluded that the public was the propagandistic influence of mass
communications, but one recent study indicates that, on the contrary, mass communications seldom produce
marked changes in social attitudes or actions.

A. unaware of

B. scornful of

C. susceptible to

D. unimpressed by

E. coping with

3. Since cold infusion is a relatively slow and gentle process, proportions and times aren’t critical. There’s
plenty of for both. As a general rule, the more fragile the tea leaves, or the smaller the particles, the
less tea and time you need to get a strong brew. If a cold brew infuses too slowly, just add more tea.

A. leisure

B. leeway

C. refinement

D. subtlety

E. inaccuracy

F. latitude

4. World demand for oil had been intensified, but it slackened because China’s surge in oil
consumption had (i) . Moreover, high oil prices had themselves started to act as a short term
(11) the global economy, thus further dampening demand.

A. spread

B. commenced

 

118

( € € € € € € € € € € €

( ¢€¢ € € €

C

€
(> € € €.

« )

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4 vol. 2

5. Economic policy is primarily reactionary, designed solely to avoid downturns rather than foster upturns.
As a result, economic policies tend to be (i) the previous crisis, rather than focusing on (ii)
management of the current boom. As a result, unrestrained financial growth leads to rampant speculation,
and soon even seemingly (ili) investments collapse as another recession begins.

      

    
     
     

Se Bakr ee
|B.ignorantof | E. sparing =| He solid
|C.responsesto | Firrational | Ie tenuous

- Blankii_ | Blank

6. This book, a more (i) version of a highly technical report, is designed for the layperson, yet
it is nothing if not (ii prapples with very complex questions about the world economy.

oe Blankie Blank ii Oe

A. accessible D. ambitious

     
  

B. professional E. popular
C. formidable

7. We live in a self-consciously plain-spoken political era. The art of spin is not quite supplanting truth with
lies. It aspires to replace awkward complexities with catchy . Successful spin does not leave the effect
of skilful persuasiveness; it creates the impression of unavoidable common sense.

A. simplicity

B. susceptibility
C. invulnerability
D. immunity

E. artificiality

8. Elias Canetti boasted about his ability to (i) death with his posthumous writings—the unpublished
novels, the half-a-dozen plays, the second part of Crowds and Power. “When I’m dead,” he claimed, “my
secret writing will take years to decipher.” The world would greet every new discovery with excitement: “A
new Canetti!” we were expected to exclaim. It has turned out otherwise. His code had proved to be a variant
on a common shorthand; the literary cupboard was bare: those novels and plays never actually existed; and
the acclaim has been (11)

(la Sik ee

A. contempt D. more than estimated
E.

 

B. symbolize less than simplified

C. outwit F. less than universal

 

119
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 378 vol. 2

9. Civility is typically promoted as a civic virtue that has the potential to some of the cleavages
and tensions that abound in pluralistic societies.

A. harbinger
B. exacerbate
C. ameliorate
D. intensify
E. alleviate
F. presage

10. The author affects in the tone of his novels that is quite at odds with his predilection for invective
in his nonfiction publications.

A. a tenacity

B. a neutrality

C. a pugnacity

D. an effusiveness

E. an irascibility

11. Research indicates that many people hold (1) views about government, believing that elected
officials should be able to overcome differences and get things done while also regarding a willingness to
compromise as a sign of (ii
oe Blank Toe ogee: Blank Hee?

 

        
  
  

     
   
 

   

    

 
     

TEST 34

1. Despite the pride that the play’s characters take in their worldly-wise absence of illusions, they are not
above a degree of unjustified

A. prevarication
B. satisfaction
C. self-flattery
D. affectation
E. narcissism

F. indolence

120

C € € € €

C

C €¢ € € € € € € € € €

€¢ € €:
‘
~

 

A. legitimate
|B. augment | E. acute | H. surplus
F. qualitative

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 48 vol. 2

2. Although the film is rightly judged imperfect by most of today’s critics, the films being created today are
it, since its release in 1940 provoked sufficient critical discussion to enhance the intellectual
respectability of cinema considerably.

A. beholden to

B. indebted to

C. derivative of

D. based on

E. distinguished from
F. biased against

3. It is possible for human to go 40 or more hours without sleep and still be able to (i) information
acquired at the beginning of the sleepless period. Thus, when we are considering a role for sleep in human
memory consolidation, we are referring to a possible role in the (ii) encoding of information and
optimizing of recall, not a (iii)

of sleep for recalling events of the prior day.

 

 
  

   
 

 

  
 

  
 

4, The epidemiologist was worried: despite __ signs of danger, few countries or companies had taken the
possibility of a pandemic seriously, and there was little interest in developing a vaccine.

A. erroneous
B. mounting

C. token

D. inconclusive
E. residual

5. Although in her own responses to the plays she reviewed, the theatre critic was, paradoxically,
suspicious of those who would deny that a reviewer must have a single method of interpretation.

A. dogmatic
B. capricious
C. eclectic
D. hostile
E. intriguing

121
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

6. In a view of 17 studies from 2008, Roy Shephard concluded that reserving up to an hour a day for
(i) in school curricula does not (i1) academic achievement. To the contrary, they noted that more
exercise often (iii) school performance, despite the time it took away from reading, writing, and
arithmetic.

‘Blank (i) ° 22s | Blank (ii) 6 | Blank Gi) 2

C. open study F. correlate with I. counteracted

 

     

    
  
 

    
 

  
 

  
 

 
 
     
       

7. The celebrity industry has perfected the art of producing (i) . However, it is grateful to see that
somebody has perfected the art of writing the opposite: works that expose the ugliness that professional
(ii) devote their talents to airbrushing out.

            
 
  
 

Blank ii

     
  
  
 

Bik

D. detractors
B. real achievements

8. Science is arguably a very high-minded pursuit, but that is not to say that all of its practitioners are ;
as numerous articles alleging overly generous pharmaceutical industry payments to medical researchers have
tried to show.

A. conventional

B. clever

C. unimpeachable

D. ingenious

E. blameless

F. predictable

9. The guilty-pleasure of the play lies in its invitation for us to identify with its characters—attractive,
articulate young women and young men (i) behavior that, from the outside, may look more than a little
(ii) : though the actions are initially repugnant, we cannot help but share the point of the view of the
characters committing them.
; Se ee Blank il. Se
D. trivial

 

 

     
     

C. rationalize

€ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € € &€ 4
c ¢

q )

)

  

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37 vol. 2

10. One baffling aspect of the novel is its capacity to generate emotional power from a plot that lacks the
most elementary _: readers must accept not an occasional coincidence, but a continuous stream of them.

A. synergy
B. continuity
C. naivety
D. premise
E. credibility

11. Scholars have marveled over the (i) that Shakespeare displays in his works, noting that such
broad learning is all the more remarkable g

in Shakespeare's time.

iven that books were relatively (ii)

  

A. meticulousness

C. erudition F, inexpensive

TEST 35

1. If emissions of heat-trapping gases continue to accumulate in the atmosphere at the current rate, Earth
could experience global transformations, and while some of these changes might be , many could be
downright disruptive.

A. catastrophic
B. calamitous
C. intolerable
D. irremediable
E. modest

F. unremarkable

2. Common misconception is that linguists are concerned only with the origin and development of languages,
but these topics, though they constitute an important part of linguistics, do not the subject.

A. frame

B. transcend
C. convey
D. exhaust
E. illuminate

123
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3 vol. 2

3. As the author asserts, in eighteenth-century England, writing plays conferred upon women (i) It
required that they aes freely with people of both sexes in a place of work that was not the home. It made
aaki i. it offered the oe | of acquiring capital.

At an stmerst t delicacy D. a prerequisite
B. a public voice E. a shame
F. an accesso

      
   
 
     

4. The politician’s oratorical technique is characterized by such an artificial and grandiose style that his
underlying import is often (1) ; the logic is certainly there, but is always secondary to the (ii)

B. delineated

A. overestimated D. imagination

 

5. For those Puritans who believed that (i) obligations were imposed by divine will, the correct
course of action was not withdrawal from the world but conscientious (ii) of the duties of
business.

 
     
 

'B inherent E. manip |E.manipulation ssi

C unconscious F. discharge

  

   

6. To read Joanna Scott is to admire the work of a (i) . From sentence to story, she narrates with as
much (ii) as patience, so that the reader soon relaxes in the assurance that a hint or a brushstroke will
be (iii) before the novel comes to an end.

ee ef pear Blank iti * 2

 

7. Capuchin monkeys’ vocal repertoire during a conflict is so that researchers can't really tell what
they really mean. This is by the fact that many signals seems to shift in meaning according to
the context in which they are produced and the developmental stage of the individuals producing them.

A. homogenous | D. suggestion | G. augmented

|B.loud | E. increase___| H.. ameliorated _|

 

124

€ € € €

€ € € € € € € € € € € € € € €C €
{> ¢ ¢

   

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 37°& vol. 2

8. The process of establishing a literary canon is seen by some as, in part, an attempt by certain scholars to
make their own labors central and to relegate the work of others to status.

A. orthodox

B. marginal

C. mainstream

D. definitive

E. conditional

F. peripheral

9. If giant x-ray flares churn circumstellar disks enough to keep newborn planets, such as Earth once was,
from spiraling into their suns, it would be an ironic twist on our conception of x-ray flares as

A. dangerous
B. predictable
C. ancient
D. ephemeral
E. perilous
F. foreseeable

10. What makes the precisely oriented flight of a honeybee swarm to its new home so is that only a

small percentage of its members know the swarm travel route and final destination.

A. exact

B. unpredictable
C. amazing

D. erratic

E. reliable

F. wondrous

1 I. With the rate of technological (i)___—_—_—saccelerating—many people now consider a personal computer
after three arsed q yeaa of how te to 2 properly dispose of old equipment is no small matter.

   

 

a affordabili

   
     

125
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3782 vol. 2

Bonus SETC

lL For all the the new CEO has received from the press recently, her staff have a decidedly less rosy
_wview of her.

of encase B/ tributes C. evaluations

D. critiques E. attention F. publicity

2. Because archaeology addresses the most basic questions and explores the most profound changes in
hurhan history by means of a grossly incomplete record -- and perhaps because it was long the province of

~—~aristocrats and buccaneers -- it has invited the sort ofibold\interpretations in which speculation can too easily
he

become evidence. :
untethered from B. dependent on C. conspicuous
D. salient E/ divorced from F. based on

N * 3. In sharp contrast to the novel’s scenic realism and precise characterized figure is its persistent

\

 

:

   

\/ philosophical ae

‘A naturalism B. abstraction iddgoot A fanieeaniey

___ D. impartiality E. sincerity . objectivity
4. She demonstrates great extent of , as she has travelled to many more countries and places around the

\_world than any of her kindred.

A/ conspicuousness B. sagaciousness C. perfidiousness UH. ON
D. peregrination E. jubilation cA . _
5.\The economic recovery was somewhat lopsided: (i)___ in some of the industrial economics while (ii)

in others of them.

   
  

Blank i

  

6. The Labrador duck is one of the most extinct birds: although there are a fair number of specimens,
few have yielded reliable data and little is known about thé species’ breeding patterns.

A. anomalous B. controversial . enigmatic

D. misrepresented E. cherished

7. As land reservoirs dry up, oil geologists say, the high costs and potential risks of offshore drilling will
seem less and more acceptable.

A. onerous QI] VE) SATs .

B. efficacious

C. auspicious

D. prevailing

E. encouraging

126
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

8. The activists’ energetic work in the service of both’ woman suffrage and the temperance movement in the
late nineteenth century (i) the assertion that the two movements were (ii)

Blank (1) Blank (ii)
as scores

  
  
  

  
 
  

9. In the popular conception, __ is inextricably tied up with __, --doing something truly creative, we
are inclined to think, requires the freshness and exuberance of youth. Orson Welles made his masterpiece,
“Citizen Kane,” at twenty-five. Mozart wrote his breakthrough Piano Concerto No. 9 in E-Flat-Major at the
age of twenty-one.

D. serendipity

a

B. destiny ( precocity

 

10. Computers have become adept in rarefied domains once thought to be uniquely human. However, they
_ simultaneously have (i) certain tasks basic to the human experience, including spatial orientation and
have shown us how (ii) such fundamental skills truly are.

BIL RK

11. Until the advent of film, commercial entertainment in England \occurred only where concentrated urban
populations provided audiences large enough to make it remunerative: theaters and music halls were
(i), in rural villages. But village cinemas quickly become (ii) , even though they were ramshackle
affairs in comparison to the urban picture palaces.

12. Instead of demonstrating the of archaeological applications of electronic remote sensing, the

pioneering study became, to some skeptics, an illustration of the imprudence of interpreting sites based on
“virtual archaeology. .

A. ubiquity B. limitation ©. promise

BD. redundancy — E. complexity

    
    
   
     

         
     
     
   
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

     
   
     

/13. He was a leader about whom the country's people felt (i): both (ii)___—_sand reviling him.
DS.
C. indifferent w

14. The union states its position polemically; its leaders say they are fighting to save good jobs while
corporations replace full-time workers with part-time ones in order to cut down on both wages and benefits.
A. precarious B. enterprising C. rapacious

D. troubled E. influential F. avaricious

 

\
15. Although scientific advances have led to constant reevaluation and revision of numerous concepts,
principles, and mechanisms of disease etiologies, the one observation that has remained is that
virtually all human diseases can be caused, modified or altered by environmental agents of physical,
chemical, or biological origin.

A. robust B. inconsistent @. strong
D. salient E. ambiguous _ F. incongruous

16. Although one can adduce myriad of examples of ecosystem disruption by non-indigenous species,

nevertheless most introduced species that survived in fact appear to have quite effects on the
ecosystem they have invaded.
(A) marked (B) conspicuous (€) minimal
(D) intriguing  (E)/trifling (F) deleterious
17. Noise suppression can also play an important role in making cell-phone networks more efficient, he said.
When phones transmit noise beyond the speakers’ voices,/precious network bandwidth is wasted, he
said.

. irrelevant B. listless C. vagrant 2A
D. supercilious B/extraneous F, imperious POs

ARROL Hx O

18. In Japanese aesthetics, | especial, but not only in Noh, beauty contains the idea of : beauty must

have an air of evanescence, the intimation of its own demise. Bor. Ok
A. transience _—\B. symmetry UHAC. decay =
D. simplicity Ey balance F. deterioration

19. Not only is the advent of bookless or largely bookless libraries too large and powerful a change to be
, it also offers too many real advantages for it to be considered a tragedy.

A. understood \B. averted C. foreseen

D, forestalled E. endured F. anticipated

20. Artists whose roots were in painting and sculpture were delighted to find in a instant camera a

photographic mode that encouraged them to stop viewing photography as and start viewing it as
something they could handle with spontaneity, even derision
A. sacrosanct B. ephemeral
C. malleable D. sanctimonious E. intractable
128
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

21. Scientists should hope the faults in their theories will be
hypothesis can free its originator to develop a better one.

their peers since the refutation of one

   
 

A. discerned by B. disregarded by

C: discovered by Dy. ignored by

E. opaque to F. inspiring to

COKIN

22. The nature of the approval process for new drugs suggests that incentives to promote more
expeditious decision making may be necessary.

A. pecuniary B. commercial C. arbitrary

Dé sluggish E. capricious F. dilatory
23. There has been great enthusiasm in the United States for reducing fossil fuel dependence by
increasing production of biofuels from crops such as corn and switchgrass, but this (i) about biofuels

otential should be (ii) by a realistic appraisal of the costs and challenges of biofuel production.

24. My grandma has a strong belief in all things : she insists, for example, that the house in which she
lived as a child was haunted.

_-A. clamorous CAEEOk CB. invidious QeYOk | @. numinous ATO;

 
   

  
    

D. empirical E. sonorous
25. In matters of taste, the art patron and collector Peggy Guggenheim was , she was for the

strangest, the most surprising, the most satisfying, the best, the unique.

A. a neophyte B. a novice C. a realist

D. an extremist E. a pragmatist RA zealot
26. Miller reminded his clients that labor relationship are inherently ; the interests of business owners
are diametrically opposed to those of employees.

A. adversarial B. exploitative C. mercenary PIS ZOEY

D, antagonistic E. variable F. changeable

27. The concert hall’s suspended ceiling is two-inch-thick plaster that reflects low-frequency sound — energy;

similarly, all wall surfaces are angled and shaped to sound from the stage throughout the audience
area.

A: diffuse B. amplify C. spread

D. dampen E. eclipse F. deaden
28. After rising continuously over the summer, commodity prices fell, leaving analyst wondering
whether the downward trend is a turning point or merely a before demand picks up in the winter
~months.

A. spike B. upsurge C. harbinger

D. portent E. lull F. respite

129
“| Blank (i) Blank (ii)

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

29./ Although the four microclimates, observed over the three years, show very similar overall trends,
suggesting spatial in the rock surface temperature regime, relative humidity and surface wetness data
show clear differences.

A. invariability B. superiority —_C. perception

D-homogeneity BE? resemblance — F. immutability

30. The mood of the times is no longer one of over scientific achievements. Doubts and worries
beset technical and scientific specialists, as well as the public at large, | do not consider such worries
, though they are often based on intuitive feelings rather than on strictly logical argument.

      
     
     
     
 

 

A. widening skepticism D. unfounded
WB. unertal joy
C. false humility F. foreordained

31. Common sense tells me some people are more (1) than others. The claim that these differences are

(11) , or that deep down, everybody acts only to further their own interests, (iti) our everyday

observations and deep-seated human practices of moral evaluation. 421 8%

Blank (i)
A. altruistic
B. adaptable

   

    
       
     

   

32. Individuals interested in longevity have sought to fine-tune their bodies with all kinds of diets:
only raw foods; only plants; only the flesh, fruit, and nuts that prehistoric humans would have hunted and
foraged.
‘A eccentric B. meager _
C. salutary \D. proscriptive PNA. AB, Atom
E. trendy F. exacting QMS MUA
33. Although the employees' union and company management, entering into contract negotiations, both
issued statements encouraging , acrimony between the two sides continued unabated.
AYA.Qyp_ A. pertinacity —_B. compromise
C. patience Dy civility
E.comity F. steadfastness

J

x

34. Even months after massive storm, there remained a heavy, suspended sediment load in the surface water
overlying the coral reef, the water/a testament to the storm's effects,

A. turbid TED O2B. stagnant C. fathomless TpBOrs Os
D. turbulent EY brackish

 

35. It is true that science, and more particularly scientists, cherished paradigms with great reluctance
and that when they do, scientific revolutions may result.

A./unify B. share

©. cede D. embrace

E. dismantle —\F. relinquish

130
\Y
“

{

‘


 

 

% ~Honecend
ATONSQves S

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 32 vol. 2

36. In the Western art music tradition, the string quartet genre has been celebrated for its . But this

___Soviet composer, whose reputation has been wrestled over almost since his death in 1975, gave us string

quartets (without stability ,

‘A¢ coherence B. instability
C. vibrancy D. variety

E. heterogeneity

~ 37. Considering that space travel was science fiction only decades ago, we should be extremely reluctant to

proclaim an idea forever technologically infeasible unless that idea some hard physical constraint.

A. violates B. contravenes Q(IBYOH
C. overcomes D. transcends QFE

E .utilizes F. introduces

38. Britain's Queen Victoria, however (i) she had been at the beginning of her reign, was politically
much more (il) by the end of her time on the throne, as she resigned herself to the emergence of an

increasing powerful electorate that prevented her from stubbornly insisting on getting her own way in

matters of state.

Blank (i
A. naive D. powerful

B. personable

©. obdurate F.y malleable

39. Between the late 1800s and early 1900s, various institutional structures emerged that set researchers in
_ Scientific fields apart as a professional class, protected their autonomy, determined correct procedure,

    

  
  

    

and moderated disputes by__ some kinds of knowledge as real science.
A. differing \B. sanctioning C. mischaracterizing
D. censuring E. reprehending — FP. endorsing

40. Throughout much of the twentieth century, common scientific sense seemed to dictate that animals could
not make a choice based on rational or aesthetic criteria. Such choices were (i) ___ the mental capacity of
humans. Scientists who (ii) this animal-human cognitive division were often accused of
anthropomorphism.

 

  

    

41. The filmmaker is not outspoken on political matters: her films are known for their aesthetic qualities
rather than for their __ ones.

A. polemical 4228. cinematic C. narrative

D/commercial — E. dramatic

42. The essays gathered in the volume/are characterized by a unity that their disparate origins.
A. distributes B, masks @. reinforces D. betrays E. reveals

43. Since Venus and Earth are so similar in their mass and density, Mueller suggested that the two planets
have similar compositions and, therefore there must be surface features on Venus that have terrestrial

A. causes B. consequences C. counterparts
D. parallels E. properties F. outcomes

Aros
131
He

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 472 vol. 2

44. Scientists familiar with the work, said it provided fresh evidence that human activity is not only warming

the globe, particularly the Arctic, but could also even what had been presumed to be an inevitable
“descent into a new ice age over the next few dozen millenniums.

A. incur %2-ohM¢B/ avert - C. galvanize

D, forestall E. promote F, subvert

44. Compared to their predecessors, who were more nationalist than feminist in political orientation, Roman
women activists of the younger generation are more inclined to women’s rights, often creating
organizations focused primarily on women’s issues. +

A,expand B. de-emphasize

C. champion D. idealize

E. downplay F. defend

45. Because movie studios, under pressure to generate international sales, have favored big-budget pictures
with fantasy plots, the representation of everyday domestic life has largely been other media, such as
television and literature.

A. left to B. ceded to

C. ascribed to D. attributed to

E. substituted for F. replaced with

46. The life of a secret agent is dangerous enough, but the life of a double agent is infinitely more . a
single slip can send an agent crashing to destruction.

A. arduous B. precarious

C. clandestine D. perilous

E. covert Qryok F. exhilarating Aus,

47. Individuals, governments, and companies show ample ability to themselves by setting goals based
‘on current conditions and then blindly following them even when those conditions change drastically.

A. hamstring B. reinvent

Cy promote D. revitalize

E. impair Abs arOke F, invigorate

48. Reversing a decade-long trend on global , earth's surface has become brighter since 1990, scientists
are reporting.

A, warming B. cooling

C. diffusing D. dimming

E, darkening F. heating

49. The slower-learning monkeys searched but unintelligently: although they worked closely together,
they checked only the most obvious hiding places.

A, competitively B. impulsively

C. cooperatively D. deviously

E. craftily “F, harmoniously

50. Of all her works, this play is the most dependent on the dramatic conventions of the author’s day; it was

both the least of her plays and the most commercially successful.
A. experimental B. popular
C. formulaic D. lucrative E. contemporary
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 472 vol. 2

51. Even if great poetry continues to be written, it has retreated from the center of literary life. Though

supported by a of loyalists, poetry has lost the confidence that it speaks to and for the general culture.
A. speculation __B. originality

C. coterie D. skullduggery E. suppression

52. The governor might conceivably find a genuine resolution to the budgetary dilemma, but she may be
tempted to engage in a deception: a__ exercise in fiscal prudence.

A. rigorous B. sparkling

C. specious D. blatant E. convincing

53. Glass, by definition, is ; its atoms lack order and are arranged every which way. But when

scientists squeezed tiny samples of a metallic glass under high pressure, they got a surprise: The atoms lined
up in a regular pattern to form a single crystal.

A. lugubrious __ B. limpid

C. amorphous _—OD. invulnerable E. irresolute

54. Sylvester takes on a solemn and sagacious persona, the expression of his commitment to a deliberate

conversation to a disconcerting hypnotic pace, but this could be intimidating.

A. solicitude B. banality

C. gravitas D. ingénue E. lassitude

55. Other students praise you for your lectures -- for your ability to come up with illustrations or

examples that are clear, original, and sometimes also quite humorous. It is truly a great teacher who can find
humor in Descartes, as you are reported to do! [3] Ba]lz AA A]

A. pellucid B. terse

C. sympathetic D. sententious __ E. solicitous

56. Although one can adduce myriad of examples of ecosystem disruption by non-indigenous species,
nevertheless most introduced species that survived in fact appear to have quite effects on the
ecosystem they have invaded.

(A) marked (B) conspicuous (C) minimal

(D) intriguing (E) trifling (F) deleterious

57. Edited collections of scholarly essays generally tend to be somewhat uneven: they suffer from the
subject matter of the various essays, the lack of an overarching and consistent thesis, and the

variable quantity of the contributions.

A. intriguing B. disparate C. heterogeneous

D. mediocre E. comprehensive F. engaging

58. Already the characteristically modern relationship, friendship has in recent decades become the
one: the form of connection in terms of which all others are understood, against which they are all measured,
into which they have all dissolved.

A. paradigmatic B. benevolent = C. universal
D. insipid E. altruistic F. bland
59. Though we live in an era of stunning scientific achievement, many otherwise educated people remain
indifferent to or contemptuous of such achievement, even going so far as to their ignorance on basic
physics.
A. decry B. conceal C. remedy D. boast of E. downplay

133
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

60. The concept of the Hellenistic period in ancient history has proved useful but also _, with scholars
disagreeing on the dates when the period began and ended.

A. slippery B. elusive C. fruitless

D. deceptive E. futile F. compelling

61. Few studies have been published on ground-squirrel dispersal, and most of them have involved very
small sample sizes, thus most statement regarding ground-squirrel must be considered

A. invaluable B. unexceptional

C. inveterate D. routine E. conjectural

62. People from one community always take each other as
as their family line.

since they automatically classify the others

A. relative B. patron
C. kinfolks D. acquaintance
E. consort F, neighborhood

63. Appearing in the midst of so many equivocal comments, this unambiguous statement, whatever its
intrinsic merit, plainly stands out as__.

A. anomalous B. arcane

C. irrelevant D. superfluous

E. unusual F. esoteric

64. So (i) is the reputation of the city's police force for (ii) that whenever a new police
chief take office, he or she routinely promises to clean up the force.
Blanki Blank

|A.persistent__ | D. corruption

  
  

       

B. recent E. efficienc
C. discouraging F. inexperience

65. The of biographies of antebellum capitalists is particularly striking in contrast with the abundance
of life stories of industrialists in later eras.
A. brevity B. banality
C. utility D. paucity
E. triteness F. dearth
66. He was so during the filming of the movie that crew members nicknamed his "The Angriest Man
in the World”.
A. loquacious __B. irascible C. perfidious
D. sanguine E. voracious
67. In the wild, no other mammal individuals from another species; badgers do not tend hares, deer
do not nurture baby squirrels, lions do not care for giraffes.
A. protects B. fosters C. aids
D. cajoles E. adopts F. coaxes
134

Cc ¢ € ¢€

C € € € € € € € € € € €

(

(
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

 
 
  

             
  
 

68. The physical (i) seen in the remains of soldiers who fought in the fifteenth-century battle of Towt
on is unsurprising, given the (ii origins of the men who took the battlefield that day.

69. At Cerro Portezuelo, the task of separating grinding tools from the larger collection of excavated stone
objects was (i) the ancient practice of recycling grinding tool fragments for building materials,
hammer stones, and other purposes that (11) their original use.

   

Blank(i) = | Blank)

 

    

   

 
   

   
  

A. complicated by 7 D. complemented

70. In its few decades of existence, the field of technology assessment has undergone large changes: its

‘Blank Blank (i)

 
     

original high ambitions to predict consequences of technology have been if not discarded.

A. deferred B. subverted

C. abandoned __—OD. relinquished

E. tempered F. modulated

71. The spacecraft’s considerable heft made an unusually route for it meanders through the solar

system under the influence of gravitation of three celestial bodies.

A. indirect B. truncated
C. circuitous D. shortened
E. straightforward F, undeviating

72. Even though the survey course was designated as interdisciplinary, it involved no real of subject
matter.
A. exegesis B. synthesis C. analysis

D. fusion E. distillation F. explication

73. Politicians who invoke the founders of the United States in support of their views seem to imply that the

founders consistently concurred in their own views when in reality they were a highly group of
thinkers.

A. erudite B. innovative

C. predictable D. contentious

E. methodical

74. The physics graveyard is strewn with the skeletons of failed theories, unexplained effects, and anomalous

particles that briefly the research spotlight, then rapidly fade from view.
A. douse B. intensify

C. perpetuate D. capture

E. extinguish F. secure

135
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4 vol. 2

75. As the release of the annual report drew near, it was clear that more than a few employees suspected the

company was on the verge of bankruptcy; the belief was throughout the organization.
A. omniscient —_B. abject C. pervasive> widespread = 4]
D. estimable E. specious

76. Collecting such fragment of contemporary popular culture as postcards, newspaper clippings, and
wallpaper patterns, Susan Hiller transforms these seemingly (i) artifacts into objective (ii) by making
them nes cente pieces in her _Sombestion

77. The medical researchers replied to the charge that their proposed new treatment was __ demonstrating
that it in fact observed standard medical practices.

A. deleterious B. untested

C. unorthodox D. expensive

E. intricate F, unconventional

  
     
   

  

78. Despite the fact that the book’s title suggests , the author is not a charlatan claiming to offer a
rather SE book ee assesses p pssiblet treatments of certain diseases without identifying any cures.

A. sinceri panacea
= expertise

    

_ quacke LF. prescription

79. Just as doctors often forget to ask patients about psychological symptoms, psychologists may treat
troubles without considering the possibility of corporeal causes. Lately, however, some doctors and
psychologists (i) _ this dichotomy and (ii) __ the long-dormant discipline of somatopsychology, which
centers ¢ on. n the effects of ph sical illness on mental states.

A. embrace _ Belong

 

B. share
. question CF dampen

80. Tompkinson’s prior donations to the university, while very generous, failed to
her latest gift.

the magnitude of

A. compensate for B. portend

C. clarify D. predict

E. offset F. undermine

81. The author of this biography gives an accurate and(i) _ account of the subject’s life story, but all the
carefull wy_asserbled deta com pensate for — lack of (ii) __—_in her writing.

  

E. veraci

136

c ¢

f ¢ € € €

€

(

Cc € € €

c« © ¢€

€
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 352 vol. 2

82. People were surprised to find that the award winning actor actually took the part of such a humdrum

character, which few colleagues regarded as the of the movie. [043] 9t]
A. theme B. braggart

C. cynosure D. hubris

E. debacle

83. This author argued that the field of sociology has been overly (1) , partly because, for many scholars,
the edges of the social universe are defined by national borders. In this era of increasing globalization,
however, sociology is presented with a historically distinct opportunity to transcend its former (ii) ;

   
    
   
   
  

  
  
  

    

  

aks % sa SER AL A SR SE

A. narrow in scope D. utilitarianism
B. susceptible to fads E. parochialism
C. averse to empiricism F. historicism

84. In the northeastern North America beaver populations had been critically reduced or even in
large areas at the end of the 19" century, so that several states in the United States and provinces in Canada
took protective measures, particularly by prohibiting any further trapping.

Skee Cent TyTN
* * °

A. extirpated B. augmented

C. increased D. eliminated

E. estranged F. entangled

85. It presents an account of the dynamic relationship between society and science. Despite the mounting
evidence of a much closer, (i) relationship between society and science, current debate still seems
to turn on the need to maintain a ‘line’ to (ii) them,

    
 

 

      
  

   

   
  

‘Blanki_ © | Blankii.

86. Higher energy prices would have many (i) effects on society as a whole. Besides encouraging
consumers to be more (ii) in their use of gasoline, they would encourage the development of renewable
alternative energy sources that are not (iii at current prices.

  
     
     

 

     

C. salubrious F. sparing

87. Although Thaler employs an innovative mode of analysis, his study offers yet another examination of
quite ground—namely, the cultural ideology of Norwegian-American preservationist writers in
the early twentieth century. The history, literature, and changing internal dynamics of the Norwegian
subculture in America constitute a particularly well-studied area. Anyone familiar with the authoritative work
of scholars in the field will little in Thaler’s study that is

Blanki ss | Blankii =, Blankifi

: Totgeee
eee Shae wee ee
.

 
          

A. well-worked

E. take issue with
|C. incipient | F. find | inconsistent

137
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 38 vol. 2

88. Some kinds of deadly bacteria, including those that cause tetanus, tuberculosis, and botulism, remain
until something triggers their insidious activity.

A. harmless B. innocuous
C. anomalous D. aberrant
E. efficacious F. undetectable

89. Even though women in US would not gain right to vote until 1920, throughout the 19-century many

feminist goals were gradually , especially the rights of married women to control their own property.
A. realized B. achieved

C. abandoned D. eroded

E. modified F. revised

90. Our mass media are much more fascinated by bad ideas or the failure of good ones than by successes: we
drown in bad news—tales of how things went wrong--but we have only the most discussion on how
they might go right.

A. incisive B. tantalizing

C. trenchant D. cursory

E. illusory F. perfunctory

91. The research informing Byatt’ book on vegetarianism in Victorian England appears to be , witha
great deal of revealing detail on display and more than a third of the text taken up with footnotes.

A. uneven B. excessive C. exhaustive

D. mixed E. inconsistent F. comprehensive

92. There may be something about the very idea of jest, because it obeys no rules and draws hints
from the humor of the audience. The art of caricature, by contrast, is__, bounded and severe.

   
 
  

    
  
    
  

‘Blank:

 

} “| Blankii 8 eee

B. rebellious E. definite
C. expansive

    

93. Though it may seem as if more than a century of has made the electrical grid an all encompassing
web connecting the whole of the continent, many vast and beautiful areas remain without power.

A. refinement —_ B. expansion

C. ubiquity D. augmentation

E. omnipresence F. isolation

94. Although movie critics Pauline Kael had a distaste for sycophancy, she also had a need for ,asa
p i B She sent very signals to friends and colleagues.

 
    
     

 
  

|B.obeisance LE. subtle

138

(

¢ ¢

€ € € € € € € € € € € € € € € €

€
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

95. Stephen Jay Gould is a brilliant (i) : few other scientists could draw with such excitement fish
wagging their tails from side to side, whales wagging them up and down. He relates science to the human
condition. He built a massive popular oeuvre out of the dead material of fossils: paleontology is a field of
science in which (ii) , not experiment, rules.

; Blank ii”

A. master of science D. universal nature

B. swashbuckler E. sophisticated objectivi

C. raconteur F. inference

 

96. Reviews written by music critic and composer Stephenson were hardly (i) _: musicians who
performed his music could count on sympathetic coverage, while those who ignored him were held to (ii)___
standards.

Blanki

A. disinterested |D. exacting

97. Despite its abundance and importance, the biological origin of maize has been a long-running mystery.
The bright yellow, mouth-watering treat we know so well does not grow in the wild anywhere on the planet,
so its ancestry was not at all

  

    
 

 
   

A. obvious B. exact
C. inconspicuous D. unassailable
E. tentative

98. That the artist chose to remain in his hometown does not mean that he remained (i) ; on

“gaan.

the contrary, he (ii) the international artistic movements of his day.

  

  
  
 

Sate : fies» Tae aoe

D. knew nothing about
E. made light of
C. obstinate F. kept abreast of

 
     

99. What is important about Mr. Diamond’s work in general is the contrast between its emotional intensity
and its calm, tone.

A. measured B. assured

C. lugubrious D. vivacious

E. mellifluous

100. Rapid and radical shifts in taste make it more __ to do business and can even threaten the existence of
an enterprise. One reason automobile styling has changed so little these last two decades is because the
industry has been struggling to survive, which made the perpetual big annual styling changes of the Golden
Age a(an) business expense.

 

      
  
  

    
 
  

Bie be Sate aca tees OF

Blanki 9) 08 2. | Blanka.

139
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

101. There are no criteria of excellence in art: works that once were ignored or even reviled now
fetch millions of dollars at auction, while those that were most highly praised in their day now languish in
storage.

A. subjective B. dubious C. transitory

D. immutable E. uncontroversial

102. Even before he went to art school, Heatherwick found the standard design categories ; he didn’t
understand why designing buildings and designing tables should require different sensibilities. “I was just
interested in the making of things,” he said to me. This attitude explains why on his Web site Heatherwick
organizes his work not by type.

A. confining B. somber
C. intriguing D. lugubrious
E. interesting F. limiting

103. The book brings together many valuable reports on conservation projects, but with less variety than
might have been wished: nearly half the contributions are from the same state, and consequently, the case

studies are similarly geographically.

A. rudimentary B. interdependent

C. interrelated D. complex

E. heterogeneous F. dissimilar

104. When the atmosphere over the city is at its best, it is peculiarly , and this clarity seems to distill
this very special beauty of the plane.

A. limpid B. acute

C. tranquil D. sharp

E. calm F. pellucid

105. Readers looking for another condemnation of private equity firms should look elsewhere, this book is
not such firms.

 

A. a rant against B. a diatribe on
C. an exculpation D. a disquisition on
E. a vindication of F. an argument about

105. Although scientific progress leads to constant revision of ideas, one observation that has remained
over the years is that there are a lot of insects in the world: some 950,000 species have been identified.

A. robust B. significant

C. strong D. perplexing

E. confounding F. obscure

106. How can a brand be durable that would seem to have sustained irreparable damage? A first clue lies,
enough for an institution that likes to project itself as ancient, in a notion that is quintessentially

modern: celebrity

A. ironically B. paradoxically

C. naturally D. intrinsically

E. basically F. generally

107. Scientific discovery calls for a difficult balance: Intrepid advocacy of new ideas must often be by
the results of self-imposed trials.

A. intensified B. exaggerated
C. tempered D. moderated
E. offset F. criticized

140

C

C €¢ € €

€

(
 

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 3 vol. 2

108. In the solar system, collisions involving cosmic object are among the most processes shaping
surfaces: images of many solar objects show a proliferation of impact craters formed throughout the past 4.5
billion years.

A. cataclysmic B. pervasive
C. misleading D. uncontrollable
E. random

109. Slight but variation in the timing of the star’s pulses led astronomers to deduce that it was being
pulled backwards and forwards by three planets orbiting around it.

A. subtle B. regular

C. undetectable D. inconsequential

E. explicable

 

110. There are something like 1,400 seed banks around the world, which guard samples of crop plants
ranging from alfalfa to yams. But this agricultural archive is (i) as a result of war, storms, scant money,
and bad management, particularly in the world's most (ii) places.

 

 
 
   

       

os ; BUN Es,
a heb

Blank i Blank

|A.eroding (| De secure)
|B.expanding | E. turbulent
C. stabilizing

     

 
   

D. a discernment about
B. outstanding E. a hostility toward |H. supplant si
C. outdated F. an intoxication b [I promise sd

 

111. The space travels described in science fiction stories always used to be epic adventures, in comparison
to which current journals in space seem quite

A. mundane B. risky

C. exciting D. heroic

E. dramatic

112. The ambassador’s critical remarks seemed to be less a product of and more the careless
utterances of a fatigued or undisciplined individual.

A. intensity B. optimism

C. purposefulness D. design

E. confidence F. caution

113. The governor has considerable political talents, but as a speaker he is far less (i) than his

opponent, whose oratorical skills are (ii .
~ Blank i?) pee Blank iis S

A. adroit

B. unconvincing |E. spurious

 

C. prolix F. breathtaking
114. The new art museum’s building augurs well for that ambitious institution because it speaks of a
about contemporary architecture on the part of the board of directors that may equal

astuteness about contemporary art.

  
 

  

wo Se Blanka see

  
  

14}
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

115. The economist argued that however much the government might trumpet the value of __, it had been
as bold as any other in its spending programs.

A. thrift

B. consumption

C. dialogue

D. cooperation

E. transparency

116. Even though the original settlement may not hold up, it at least proves that the deadlock can be broken
and that a hitherto party is ready to bargain.

A. implacable B. unyielding
C. impeccable D. flawless
E. unqualified F. capricious

117. Criticized for decades of overproduction in their signature line of derivative goods, Rectangle Record

 

has satiated the market with a of repackaged old CDs, which interferes with its ability to innovate and
produce new albums.

A. dearth B. glut

C. deficiency D. surfeit

E. abundance F. profusion

118. Even though virologists were, by the 1930s, well aware of viral genotypic variation, the evolutionary
implications of this variation were barely

A. understood B. believed

C. considered D. discussed

E. predicted F. forestalled

119. Although Professor Pearson’s colleagues often complained that he was (1) , his friends were quick

to defend him from this charge of (ii) .

  
 

  
 

 
     

    
  
    

   

ee

|B. garrulous———S—S—C*d CE shoest

120. A significant element of the Gothic genre, the literary grotesque is sometimes inaccurately discussed as
if it were a Gothic or, conversely, as if it were something entirely different from Gothic.

A. synonym for

B. characteristic of

C. counterweight to

D. ramification of

E. deviation from

   

121. Far from being the corporate world because of cutbacks, serious researchers are playing a
growing role in innovation at many firms.
A. lured to B. enchanted with C. banished from

D. protected by E. immured in

122. It is harder to come up with a truly new idea than to it. One can go a lifetime without an original
insight; but such insight, once developed, can be quickly adopted by others.
A. disseminate B. debunk C. understand
D. espouse E. discredit F, transmit
142

c ¢€

€ €¢ € €

f €¢ € € €

¢

(

Cc ¢€ €

(

(
Nye

GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4 vol. 2

123. The point of the book, Dr. Krauss, a self-described nonbeliever, writes at the outset, is not to try to make

people lose their faith, but to illuminate how modern science has changed the meaning of nothingness from a
philosophical concept to something we can almost put under a lab microscope.

A. vague B. illegal

C. noisome D. stalwart E. pretentious

124, As the memoir makes plain, Mandelbrot led sort of life, rarely remaining in one place for long.
A. a circumspect B. a peripatetic

C. an enigmatic D. an idiosyncratic

E. an itinerant F. a cautious

125. Michael Billington is sometimes . For instance, he deplores the Royal Shakespeare Company's
eight-and-a-half-hour version of “Nicholas Nickleby”, which many found

 

E. unpredictable

126. Church, Nussbaum, Waldman, and Wills have written very different books—Nassbaum and Wills range

 

both farther and deeper—but each one of the four strives for saving us from the errors of partisans

and zealots.

A. concision . B. evenhandedness

C. frankness D. trustworthiness

E. succinctness F. impartiality

127. Having regarded Lee’s relationship to their boss as entirely , Clark was flabbergasted when Lee
publicly made clear his objections to some changes the boss was introducing.

A. professional B. sycophantic

C. prosaic D. dissident E. collegial

128. If researchers can determine exactly what is wrong with people who suffer from this condition, they
may be able to suggest drug therapies or other treatments that could the effects of the damage.

A. stabilize B. exacerbate

C. specify D. identify E. ameliorate

129. The professor’s habitual airof___—=—s was misleading front, concealing amazing reserves of patience and
a deep commitment to his students’ learning

A. cordiality B. irascibility

C. disorganization D. conviviality

E. diffidence F. exasperation

130. The automation of many of the functions performed at the factory, although initially inspiring _—_in
many of the company's employees, has had none of the deleterious effects forecast either within and beyond
the organization.

A. indifference B. optimism

C. ambition D. arrogance
E. trepidation

143
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 372 vol. 2

131. Franklin E. Zimring argued that criminal behavior is an impermanent condition because it is the result

of cyclical forces operating through factors, not the manifestation of deeply rooted personal
characteristics.

A. contingent B. alarming

C. circumstantial D. proliferating

E. unsustainable F. intensifying

132. Since one of Professor Roche's oft-repeated adages was that familiarity leads to (i) , his students
were quite surprised to find him so (ii) The Return of the Native, a novel he had taught for over 30
years.

a Blank i 6.2202 es Blank Gi =
A. knowledge

VARS

E. conversant with
F. disdainful over

133. The tribes’ a settled mode of living was derived from their long-standing traditions, which,
though differing from one tribal group to another, always included a resistance to nomadic lifestyles.

A. curiosity about B. proclivity toward

C. predilection for D. unfamiliarity with

E. rejection of F, disdain for

 

134. In politics, tactical calculations about which groups a candidate should appeal to are never pleasant, but

they are not always , and sometimes they are necessary.
A. injudicious B. sleazy
C. effective D. sordid
E. useful F. exceptional

135. The novel presents him as a man who monitors his state of mind and emotions as though he were doing
so , taking and thinking about himself as if he were someone else.

A. guiltily B. instinctively C. furtively

D. heedlessly E. externally

136. The series of documentaries certainly does not promote the country’s recent diplomatic initiatives, in
fact, some of the films appear to be those initiatives.

A. commendations of B. reparations of

C. tributes to D. rationalizations of

E. denunciations of F, indictments of

137. In denying him a promotion, management cited his decision making, charging that his judgments
were based on vagaries rather than careful forethought.

A. capricious B. dogmatic

C. atrocious D. cavalier

E. authoritative F. cogent

138. Many readers today consider the moral sentiments expressed in the ancient writers’ work to be quite
vapid, and in the seventeenth century they were similarly regarded as

A. jejune B didactic

C dogmatic D. tendentious __ E. arcane

144

Cc €¢ € €

(

C

Lae
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 47 vol. 2

139. The laboratory maze has ever grown ever less ____ since it was invented; instead of hoping to lose a
rodent in a labyrinth, today’s scientists design mazes to elicit a few simple, easily measurable behaviors.

A. intricate B. extensive

C. effective D. convoluted

E. useful F. prevalent

140.Baker set a new standard for explaining difficult art in language the public understand; consequently, her

books remain exemplars of in art-historical analysis.
A. fashion B. rigor
C. lucidity D. erudition E. grandiosity

141. Studies of hermaphroditic plants may exhibit sampling bias against self-fertilizing and cross-fertilizing
species, thus inflating the frequency of species using a mixed mating system (both self-fertilizing and crossfertilizing); nevertheless the number of mixed-system species is not

A. self-evident B. static
C. trivial D. relevant E. calculable
142. Despite the of medical information available through e-mail, the Internet, and mobile devices,
not many patients are taking advantage of the potential of electronic communications for health-related needs.
A. wealth B. complexity
C. intricacy D. profusion
E. resurgence F. overload

143. The controversial social analysis that Moynihan offered in the 1960s is now generally recognized as

having been prescient; in fact, it has been the upon which much of our discussion of social pathology
must base.

A. concession B. bedrock

C. imperative D compromise

E. foundation F. vision

144. Bone is a physiologically tissue that can change size and shape to meet the body’s needs during
the various stages of an animal’s life.
A. fragile B. subtle

C. imperceptible D. inflexible E. active

 

145. In the nineteenth century, the circus, for all its glitz and even its glamour, was entertainment with an old
soul, the fast-forward pace of change in modern life.

A. a forerunner of B. an antidote to C. a respite from

D. a break from E. a precursor to F. a rebuke to

146. Sokari Douglas Camp was in the early 1990s by many of London's commercially driven art
dealers and galleries, some of whom apparently found her themes difficult to market.

A. criticized B. lionized C. misrepresented

D. neglected E. forsaken F. eulogized

147. It is troubling that blogs, which may be among the least reliable sources of information in human history,
occupy such

A. enviable B. conspicuous C. suspect

D. dubious E. controversial F. prominent

148. Susan abjured store-bought cards, deeming the cloying quips to be too
sentiment in a tasteful manner.

A. rancorous B. choleric C. candid

D. mawkish E. sanguine

to express proper

145
GRE General Test-Verbal <SE/TC/RC/CR > 4F& vol. 2

149. It is assumed that researchers will avoid making fraudulent claims about the results of their experiments
because of the likelihood that they will be exposed when other scientists cannot their findings.

(A) evaluate
(B) duplicate
(C) contradict
(D) contest
(E) dispute

150. * A prominent criticism in the US, later echoed in Europe, was that multiculturalism undermined
national unity, hindered social integration and cultural assimilation, and led to the fragmentation of society
into several ethnic factions--
—Balkanization or bifurcation? 9] #22] 2-2 balkanization®] Z| BYE 7 Bstspal!

balkanize =

bifurcate=

151. Current trends of is ; young pianists learn these tactics from their teachers, the very people
who should be teaching that flailing arms, bulging eyes, (8}32 S£ 0/4 HB) et Beto] dramatice
&@e2] WS) are, in fact, to the institution of (2 performance) °]}3] + @ZolS7R. 114 202)
=.

Ist blank: h

2nd blank: p

3rd blank: e

histrionics, prevailing, extraneous % 7t->

152. We all remember a time when discovery and the thrill of learning were forces
in our lives, whenideas were as_ intoxicating as new love. For most of us, that
time happened in a _ great classroom somewhere,inthe hands of the one great

teacher we can eachremember. from Zhe Pair of Pigeons: A Tale of Love & Hope

153. The idea is that no matter what goodness post-fire logging tries to bring into the world, the result
ultimately . There is a substantial body of scientific evidence to indicate that salvage logging is

to the Forest Service’s work to stabilize the area.

backfires / counterproductive "Ct 7}-s backfire V3] B7] A] 2

154. Robinson’s presentation was : she could never tell a story, mainly because she always forgot it,
and she was never guilty of a witticism, unless by accident.

A. scintillating

B. unambiguous

C. perspicuous

D. stultifying

E. facetious

146

C € €¢ CC € € €

(

ea
